TORONTO, ON--(Marketwired - Sep 4, 2013) -
Sigma Systems, the leader in catalog-driven service fulfillment solutions, today announced that Belgacom, Belgium's incumbent and leading telecom operator, has selected Sigma's EPM and CPQ products, recently added to Sigma's idea-to-install product portfolio with the acquisition of UK based Tribold, to drive the convergence of its customer order management and product lifecycle management systems.The Sigma products will ensure Belgacom is more agile, structured and has the cross-domain processes to support its ambitious and innovative service growth strategy."The concept of a central 'product catalog' system was identified as critical new component for an improved selling and order management process," said Joost Pinnoy, Director BSS Transformation at Belgacom. "The EPM and CPQ products deliver an agile product platform and integrate that product information directly into our ordering system. This means we can bring our services to market faster to keep pace with the dynamic and advanced needs of our customers.""Belgacom can now future-proof its product delivery process, and has the ability to manage each product in a flexible, low unit cost way," said Tim Spencer, President and COO, Sigma Systems. "The EPM and CPQ products are key to realizing a seamless 'Idea to Install' process. We look forward to working with Belgacom to help the company execute on its new service strategy, and to incorporate their experience and input in our future roadmap for these solutions as part of the Sigma product portfolio.""The EPM and newly launched CPQ product have a successful history with operators around the world, with some experiencing reductions in product delivery times of up to 75 per cent," said Simon Muderack, SVP Market Development and Alliances at Sigma Systems, and former CEO at Tribold. "With the integration with Sigma's product portfolio, service providers now have a one-stop source for a catalog-driven multi-channel stack that enables 'Idea to Install.'"About Belgacom
www.belgacom.comAbout Sigma Systems Sigma Systems is a privately-held market leader in catalog-driven service fulfillment that enables Idea to Install for Communications Service Providers (CSPs). Sigma's OSS/BSS products enable CSPs to design and deliver a complete suite of products and services over any access network to any device. The portfolio spans cloud brokerage, order management, service provisioning, product & service catalog, service inventory, device management as well as professional services to ensure efficient deployment and long-term success. Sigma has fulfilled 100s of millions of RGUs across residential and business markets including services like broadband, VoIP, SIP trunking, unified communication, IPTV, mobile, cloud and M2M. Over 50 CSPs -- including Charter, Cox, Rogers, TELUS, Bell Aliant, Tiscali, American Movil, iTSCOM and ZON -- are leveraging Sigma's products to automate the fulfillment of converged IP networks. For more information about Sigma Systems, visit http://www.sigma-systems.com and follow the company on Twitter at http://twitter.com/sigmasystems.