(Oslo, 4 September 2013) Eli Giske has given notice to resign from her position as CFO of EVRY ASA. She will continue in her role as CFO until 1 March 2014. The company is now starting work on recruiting a new CFO. CFO Eli Giske has worked for Norway`s leading IT services company for 17 years in total. Her employment started with EDB, then with ErgoGroup and subsequently with EVRY. Eli Giske has now given notice to resign from EVRY, and following the expiry of her notice period she intends to take up a new role outside the company. "It is with great sadness that I have decided to leave EVRY, but taking everything into account I have decided that I would now like to apply my expertise outside the company. EVRY has a clear strategy for Nordic leadership, the merger has been implemented and the company is well on the way to achieving its objective. Accordingly, it is now the right time for me to plan the next phase of my own career. I will continue in my role as CFO of EVRY to the end of my notice period, and throughout this time I will continue to commit all my time and efforts to the best interests of the company", comments CFO Eli Giske."I am very sorry that Eli Giske has given notice to resign, but I respect her decision to take a new step in her career. Eli Giske has made a formidable contribution to the company over many years. She made an important contribution to our successful merger and to realising synergy gains, and she has played a central role in establishing a new and market-focused organisational structure that paves the way for EVRY to achieve the objectives it has announced. In addition, Eli Giske has established an effective and highly competent accounting and finance function that plays a key role for the company", comments Terje Mjøs, CEO of EVRY.  EVRY is now starting work on recruiting a new CFO.This information is subject of the disclosure requirements pursuant to section 5-12 of the Norwegian Securities Trading Act.Contact persons:Terje Mjøs, CEO EVRY, Tel: +47 06500Eli Giske, CFO EVRY, tlf +47 908 44 189Geir Remman, VP Corporate Communications, EVRY. Tel: + 47 970 55 017About EVRYEVRY is one of the leading IT companies in the Nordic countries, with a strong local and regional presence in 50 Nordic towns and cities. Through its knowledge, solutions and technology, EVRY contributes to the development of the information society of the future, and so creates value for the benefit of its customers and for society as a whole. EVRY combines in-depth industry knowledge and technological expertise with a local delivery model and international strength.EVRY has some 10,000 employees, and the company is committed to demonstrating that Nordic customers are best served by a supplier that understands Nordic business from the inside. EVRY reports annual turnover approaching NOK 13 billion. The company is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and operates from headquarters at Fornebu in Bærum, with major activities in both the Norwegian and Swedish markets.This information is subject of the disclosure requirements pursuant to section 5-12 of the Norwegian Securities Trading Act.This announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: EVRY via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1727078