LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Sep 4, 2013) - CohesiveFT, the creator of products and services that enable enterprises to use virtual and cloud computing infrastructure to run business operations in the cloud, is proud to announce the company is a finalist for the Global Security Challenge (GSC) category Post-Revenue security solutions, and the Computing Security Magazine Awards for Cloud Security Solution of the Year.CohesiveFT and their network virtualization product, VNS3, are nominated in both awards for work in the cloud computing industry around data security encryption and cloud overlay networking. To vote for CohesiveFT VNS3 for Cloud Security Solution of the Year go to: http://ow.ly/o8rMQ Voting is now open and closes on October 9, 2013"We are honored to have been selected as a finalist by both the editors of Computing Security magazine and the Global Security Challenge judges," said Patrick Kerpan, CEO and co-founder of CohesiveFT. "Cohesive has been working with customers and partners to secure over 60 million virtual device hours since we started supporting the cloud industry in 2008. It is a testament to our technology and our industry to see how customers are using VNS3 to scale their production-ready cloud deployments as they grow."VNS3 is different from other cloud networking solutions because it creates a customer-controlled overlay network on top of any underlying public, private or hybrid IaaS. VNS3 allows enterprise customers to secure and control their production ready cloud environments to speed time to market.AWARDS INFO: CTO to speak at GSC The Global Security Challenge Summit will take place on Thursday, September 12, 2013 in London, UK. CohesiveFT's CTO, Chris Swan, will present a brief company pitch as part of the Summit and award presentation. Mr. Swan will present at 2:20pm in the Bourne Laboratory Building in the Royal Holloway at the University of London. Contact CohesiveFT or the GSC for a free ticket. Story continuesIn the Computing Security Awards, the winner in each category will be determined via popular vote online and presented on October 17 in London. Details about the 2013 Computing Security Awards and the list of Finalists in all categories are available at computingsecurityawards.co.uk. Vote here between now and Oct. 9, 2013: http://ow.ly/o8rMQABOUT VNS3:
Over 500 CohesiveFT customers are extending and connecting global networks that were previously too expensive to maintain. VNS3 does not require new knowledge or training to implement. Enterprises can be easily create and start work on applications without changing vendors, relearning software, or hiring more staff. With VNS3, enterprise customers can guarantee secure access between their corporate datacenter and cloud-based systems.The recent winner of the 2013 Public Cloud Services & Infrastructure Award, CohesiveFT was also the 2013 runner up Data Centre Solutions Award for Public Cloud Project of the Year and recently named to the Talkin' Cloud Top 100 Cloud Service Provider list.ABOUT COHESIVEFT: CohesiveFT enables enterprises to run business operations in the cloud. Our solutions help migrate, transform and extend both customer facing systems and internal operational platforms. CohesiveFT lets enterprises build on existing IT resources, save money on a single, upfront migration and focus on an application-centric view of integration, governance and security.Our solutions provide cloud infrastructure products and services allowing enterprises to safely migrate through a logical set of steps. CohesiveFT products allow enterprises to use existing resources, software components and operating systems to target public, private, and hybrid clouds.CohesiveFT is a leader in enterprise application-to-cloud migration and provides more application-controlled software defined networking than all competitors combined. The CohesiveFT team has decades of experience in enterprise solution-oriented cloud brokerage. To find out more, visit www.cohesiveft.comLocated in Chicago, London, Palo Alto and Belo Horizonte.