SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Sep 3, 2013) - Prima BioMed Ltd (
ASX :
PRR ) (
NASDAQ :
PBMD ) (ISIN:US74154B2034) ("Prima", the "Company") today announced that the abstract entitled, "Study of Autologous Dendritic Cell Therapy Targeting Mucin 1 as a Treatment for the Maintenance of Ovarian Cancer Patients in Remission" has been accepted for a poster presentation at the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer ("SITC") 28th Annual Meeting. Further analyses of clinical and immunological data from the CAN-003 clinical trial of CVac™ will be presented. The poster will be presented by Prima's Chief Technical Officer, Dr. Sharron Gargosky, at the Gaylord National Hotel and Convention Center in National Harbor, MD. Poster presentations are scheduled to occur on Friday, November 8, 2013 from 12:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. and on Saturday, November 9, 2013 from 12:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. The exact time and location of Dr. Gargosky's poster presentation will be available closer to the conference date.Dr. Goh, the CAN-003 study team, Dr. Gargosky, and Dr. Heidi Gray are the authors of the abstract. CAN-003 is a 63-patient phase 2 study evaluating the effect of CVac on progression free and overall survival, as well as safety and immune responses, in patients in remission after first line treatment for epithelial ovarian cancer. As previously announced by Prima, topline data from the CAN-003 will be presented by Dr. Jeffrey Goh at the European Cancer Congress on October 1, 2013 in Amsterdam. About Prima BioMedPrima BioMed is a globally active leader in the development of personalized bio-therapeutic products for cancer. Prima is dedicated to leveraging its technology and expertise to bring innovative treatment options to market for patients and to maximize value to shareholders. Prima's lead product is CVac™, an autologous dendritic cell-based product currently in clinical trials for ovarian cancer patients in remission and soon starting in trials for pancreatic, colorectal, and triple-negative breast cancers.