- Frans Muller to succeed Pierre-Olivier Beckers upon his retirement -- Roland Smith resigns as CEO of Delhaize America -BRUSSELS, BELGIUM, September 4, 2013 - Delhaize Group (Euronext, Brussels: DELB, NYSE: DEG), the Belgian international food retailer, announced today that it has appointed Frans Muller as Chief Executive Officer, effective November 8, 2013. Mr. Muller will succeed Pierre-Olivier Beckers, who will remain available to advise the new CEO until year-end and continue to serve on the Board of Directors in a non-executive capacity thereafter. In order to ensure a seamless transition, Mr. Muller will join the company on October 14, 2013, prior to assuming the role of CEO. Frans Muller, 52, has more than 15 years of senior leadership experience in retail and brings to Delhaize Group a strong track record of managing complex, global organizations.Most recently, Mr. Muller served as Member of the Management Board of Metro AG, an international retailing company, and CEO of Metro Cash & Carry, with direct responsibility for approximately 740 stores in 29 countries and sales of €31.6 billion. His extensive operational experience, from supply chain management to procurement, and proven ability to drive growth will be critical to Delhaize Group`s continued momentum.Mats Jansson, Chairman of the Board of Directors, said: "Frans has the right mix of experience and skills to lead our company into the future and we are pleased to welcome him to Delhaize Group. He brings a deep understanding of global food retailing and we are impressed by his international perspective, operational expertise, and proven ability to grow businesses."Frans Muller said: "I am very enthusiastic to join Delhaize Group. The company is on track with its strategic priorities for the year and is focused on the areas that deliver the highest growth and returns. I am looking forward to leading the company, working with the Executive Committee and 160,000 Delhaize associates to build on the company`s current momentum."Pierre-Olivier Beckers said: "I am delighted to welcome Frans to the Group. He has all the qualities to lead the company to the next level of its development and I look forward to working with him to ensure a smooth transition."Delhaize Group also announced that Roland Smith is resigning today from his role as CEO of Delhaize America but will be available as a senior advisor to the CEO until the end of the year. Following Mr. Smith`s departure, the company`s U.S. operations will report to the Delhaize Group CEO.Mr. Beckers added: "Our U.S. business continues to deliver positive results and we have a solid foundation upon which to build. There is a strong leadership team in place and we look forward to further progress in the U.S. I want to thank Roland for his significant contributions to the success of Delhaize America, particularly the energy and focus he brought to the business. I am pleased that he will be available as a senior advisor to the CEO until the end of the year." Biographical details for Frans Muller2008-2013         CEO, METRO Cash & Carry2006-2013         Member of the Management Board of METRO AG2005-2008         CEO, METRO Group Buying2004-2005         President, Asia Pacific and Russia/Ukraine, Metro Cash & Carry International2002-2004         Chief Operating Officer, Eastern Europe and Russia, Metro Cash & Carry International2002-2005         Member of the Executive Board of Directors, METRO Cash & Carry International1997-2002         Operations Director / Managing Director, Makro Cash & Carry Netherlands1988-1997         Different senior management positions at KLM CargoEducation         Master of Business Economics, Erasmus University, Rotterdam (Netherlands)Nationality         Dutch» Delhaize GroupDelhaize Group is a Belgian international food retailer present in ten countries on three continents. At the end of the second quarter of 2013, Delhaize Group`s sales network consisted of 3 455 stores. In 2012, Delhaize Group posted €21.0 billion ($27.0 billion) in revenues and €104 million ($134 million) in net profit (Group share). At the end of 2012, Delhaize Group employed approximately 158 000 people. Delhaize Group`s stock is listed on NYSE Euronext Brussels (DELB) and the New York Stock Exchange (DEG).This press release is available in English, French and Dutch. You can also find it on the website http://www.delhaizegroup.com. Questions can be sent to investor@delhaizegroup.com.Pictures are available in the image gallery on the Delhaize Group website : www.delhaizegroup.com» ContactsInvestor Relations: + 32 2 412 2151Media Relations: + 32 2 412 8669Press release in PdfThis announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: Delhaize Group via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1727100