CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwired - Sep 3, 2013) -
Donnycreek Energy Inc. ("Donnycreek" or the "Company") (TSX VENTURE:DCK) reports that it has become aware of a proposed class action lawsuit filed in the Alberta Court of Queen's Bench against Donnycreek, Donnybrook Energy Inc. ("Donnybrook") and certain of their respective directors and officers. The action contains various claims relating to the plan of arrangement involving Donnycreek and Donnybrook completed in November 2011, the transfer of certain assets from Donnybrook to Donnycreek, a related private placement and other related transactions.The proposed class action can't proceed unless certified by the Court. The Company intends to review these claims in detail and take steps to protect its interests.ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF DONNYCREEK ENERGY INC.Malcolm F.W. Todd, President and Chief Executive OfficerADVISORY ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This news release contains certain forward-looking information and statements ("forward-looking statements") within the meaning of applicable securities laws. The use of any of the words "expect", "anticipate", "continue", "estimate", "may", "will", "project", "should", "believe", "plans", "intends" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.Forward-looking statements are based on a number of material factors, expectations or assumptions of Donnycreek which have been used to develop such statements and information but which may prove to be incorrect. Although Donnycreek believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on them because Donnycreek can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Since forward-looking statements address future events and conditions, by their very nature they involve inherent risks and uncertainties.Additional information regarding some of these risks, expectations, assumptions and other factors may be found in the Company's Revised Annual Information Form and Management's Discussion and Analysis prepared for the year ended July 31, 2012. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date hereof and Donnycreek undertakes no obligations to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless so required by applicable securities laws.NEITHER THE TSX VENTURE EXCHANGE NOR ITS REGULATION SERVICES PROVIDER (AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED IN THE POLICIES OF THE TSX VENTURE EXCHANGE) ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ADEQUACY OR ACCURACY OF THIS NEWS RELEASE.