AUSTIN, TX--(Marketwired - Sep 4, 2013) - Macheen Inc., a leading mobile cloud application service provider for connected devices, today announced the launch of its enterprise deployment utility and admin console for Pinpoint Services. The new tools allow IT administrators to take control of deploying customized cellular connectivity for end users' laptops and tablets, as well as easily managing mobile policies."Through Macheen Pinpoint Services, organizations of any size can enable their workforce to be always-connected to just the applications that they need to be productive. In addition, with the release of these enterprise tools, we make it easy to deploy and manage the right-sized data plans for all end users and their mobile devices," states Glenda Akers, Vice President of Products, Macheen. "Employees get the flexible service they need, IT gains the control they want and finance will have the predictable cost never available before. Everyone wins."Two massive macro trends are about to collide. More employees are becoming mobile beyond their smartphone, and secondly, more enterprise applications are moving to the cloud. The intersection of these two trends is creating a whole new problem for IT to solve -- as an unconnected device is now a dead device. Expensive and unsecure WiFi is no longer enough to keep employees connected and productive. To help organizations solve this problem, Macheen has developed Pinpoint Services to connect people and devices to the exact cloud and internet application services that matter, while delivering significant cost savings.With Pinpoint Services, organizations can achieve:Right-sized plansFull connectivity policy controlSplit billing capabilityCustomizable roamingSimple global deploymentWith the new deployment tool, an organization can monitor the state of each device as it is deployed, automatically manage exceptions through to resolution, and proactively manage the process. The admin console offers an easy way for IT departments to manage connectivity policies around Pinpoint Services for individuals, group and department levels.Story continuesIn addition, the admin console allows companies to:Gain visibility and control of user data plansAdd/delete and manage usage from one easy portalDeploy Pinpoint services for one user or a group of usersControl spending limits for both local and roaming usage"Pinpoint Services flips the mobile broadband model on its head as it transfers the control of customized connectivity and roaming packages from carriers to companies themselves," adds Akers. "These new enterprise tools make it easy to roll out the software to tens of thousands of users with a comprehensive dashboard to proactively manage customized plans and services."For more information on how Pinpoint Services can save up to 10x over traditional carrier plans, contact sales@macheen.com or call 512-579-3901 or visit our website www.macheen.com.About Macheen Macheen Inc. is a leading global mobile application service provider for connected devices and services. Its flexible cloud-based platform enables innovative mobile business models and connected service offerings that can be tailored to individual device and market segments. Macheen is unique in providing a flexible platform for new mobile broadband subscription models for bundled access, sponsored content and fine-grained enterprise connectivity. Macheen has service in over 80 countries, with local service in 11 countries. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, Macheen maintains wholly owned subsidiaries in Germany and the United Kingdom.