WINNIPEG, MANITOBA--(Marketwired - Sep 3, 2013) -
San Gold Corporation (SGR.TO)(SGRCF) (the "Company" or "San Gold") is pleased to announce the appointment of Mr. Greg Gibson as a director of the Company, effective today."Greg is a welcome addition to our board of directors. He has extensive industry experience with a visionary ability to identify and enhance the value of high potential mineral properties like our flagship Rice Lake Mining Complex. Greg's views on corporate strategy, especially underground gold mining in Canada, are very much in line with our own and I look forward to his contributions," said Ian Berzins, San Gold's President, CEO and Chief Operating Officer.Mr. Gibson has more than 30 years of mining industry experience throughout Canada, the USA and Australia. He recently led Trelawney Mining and Exploration as President and CEO, and as a director, to a Plan of Arrangement with IAMGOLD Corporation in June 2012 following Trelawney's gold discovery near Cote Lake South of Timmins, Ontario.Mr. Gibson is currently Chairman of Temex Resources Corp., a director of Mag Copper Ltd. and a director of SGX Resources. Most recently, he held the position of President and CEO of Northern Gold, which raised $28 million since mid-2012 during tight market conditions. During his career, Mr. Gibson was mine manager at Yilgarn Star Gold Mine in Australia, Copper Mines of Tasmania and the Chester Gold Project in Timmins, Ontario. He has been a contract manager, foreman and miner at various contractor mining companies including JS Redpath and Dynatec Mining Ltd.About San GoldSan Gold is an established Canadian gold producer, explorer, and developer that owns and operates the Rice Lake Mining Complex near Bissett, Manitoba. The Company employs more than 420 people and is committed to the highest standards of safety and environmental stewardship. San Gold is on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol "SGR" and on the OTCQX under the symbol "SGRCF".For further information on San Gold, please visit www.sangold.ca.Cautionary Note No stock exchange, securities commission or other regulatory authority has approved or disapproved the information contained herein.