BEAUFORT, SC / ACCESSWIRE / June 30, 2015 / Coastal Banking Company Inc. (CBCO), the holding company of CBC National Bank, which operates branches in Beaufort and Port Royal, S.C., and Fernandina Beach, Fla., announced that on June 24 long-time CBCO and CBC National Bank board chairman Suellen Garner retired as chairman of both boards. She remains a director of both the holding company and CBC National Bank.Coastal Banking Company Inc. Chief Executive Office Michael G. Sanchez was elected to replace Garner as chairman of both boards."Suellen Garner has been a stalwart supporter and proven leader of our company during her 16-year tenure as chairman," said Sanchez. "She ably led the company through the merger in 2005 of Lowcountry National Bank and First National Bank of Nassau County to form CBC National Bank. And she provided steady guidance to executive management in working through the financial crisis and returning the company to sound financial health and profitability. She continues to ably serve as a director on both the company and bank boards and remains instrumental in advocating for the ongoing success of our company."About Coastal Banking Company Inc.Coastal Banking Company Inc. is the $513.3 million-asset bank holding company of CBC National Bank, headquartered in Fernandina Beach, Fla., which provides a full range of consumer and business banking services through full-service banking offices in Beaufort, S.C., Fernandina Beach, and Port Royal, S.C. The company's residential mortgage banking division, headquartered in Atlanta, includes an Internet-based retail mortgage operation, as well as a National Retail Group that has lending offices in Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois and Ohio. The company's Small Business Administration lending division originates SBA loans primarily in Jacksonville, Ft. Myers, Tampa and Vero Beach, Fla., Greensboro, N.C., and Beaufort. The company's common stock is publicly traded on the OTCQX Markets under the symbol CBCO.Story continuesFor More Information:Michael G. Sanchez Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Coastal Banking Company Inc. 904-321-0400 SOURCE: Coastal Banking Company Inc.