chicken wingsMoreSydney Kramer  July 4 is just around the corner, and that means it’s finally time to bust out that bag of charcoal or refill your propane tank, because grilling season has officially begun.Even if you live in a small apartment with no outdoor space or safe grilling area to speak of, you can still enjoy that quintessential charred flavor by doing a bit of indoor, urban grilling —  just don’t forget to open your windows and turn on the exhaust.Wings are one of America’s most beloved and versatile foods. You can fry them or bake them, make them sweet, spicy, or both, and slather them with almost any kind of sauce, from one in a jar to one you whip up on your own.We think that the best way to enjoy wings this season is to throw them on the grill, whether that means getting outside and sparking a flame, or just turning on your stove and heating up your griddle. The key is making sure that you marinate the chicken overnight to ensure that they are both tender and full of flavor.These wings pack a punch with exactly the right amount of spice and coated in a sweet, sticky sauce that will leave you licking your fingers and going back for seconds. Sweet & Spicy Grilled Wings Serves 4 For the Marinade: 3 pounds chicken wings (whole or separated, either is fine)¼ cup hot chili oil or Sriracha3 tablespoons olive oil2 tablespoons smoked paprika2 teaspoons kosher salt¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepperjuice of 1 lemon For the Sauce: 3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted3 tablespoons hot chili oil or Sriracha3 tablespoons honeyjuice of ½ a lemonCombine all of your marinade ingredients in a small bowl. If you are using whole wings, cut a slit in either side of the fatty skin (so they are easier to eat later) —  if you are using pre-cut wings, use them as they are. Place the wings in a gallon sized sealable bag or sealable container and pour the marinade of them. Use your hands to be sure that the wings are well coated, then refrigerate overnight.When you are ready to cook, heat your grill to medium heat (or your indoor griddle to high heat). Place the wings on the flame and cook for 5-8 minutes on each side, depending on how hot your surface is.While the wings cook, whisk together the sauce ingredients, taste, and adjust seasonings as necessary. If you want the sauce to be spicier, add more hot chili oil or Sriracha. If you want it to be sweeter, add more honey and/or lemon juice. When the wings are nice and charred, toss in the sauce and serve hot. These can be made a day or two ahead of time, if you like, then placed in the oven under the broiler or on the grill to quickly reheat and serve.More From Business Insider Why Local-Mobile Marketing Is ExplodingThe Guardian Revealed An NSA 'Scoop' Then Deleted It From The WebsiteVice President Biden Called Ecuador's President To Stop Him From Taking Edward Snowden