CAMBRIDGE, MA--(Marketwired - Jun 30, 2013) - Euclides Technologies, a leader in field service management software solutions, is proud to announce that they have teamed up with Jackson Energy Authority (JEA), a multi-utility located in Jackson, TN, to introduce new ClickSoftware integrations to better serve the needs of JEA's customers.Euclides performed a review of JEA's current system and future needs. As a result, JEA will be migrating to Central Service Association's (CSA) Customer Management Billing system. Euclides will also be integrating ClickSoftware's ClickSchedule and ClickMobile software across JEA's systems. These systems will be replacing JEA's ViryaNet programs.Mike Baughn, VP of IT at JEA commented, "Euclides' ClickSoftware solution lines up with JEA's core competencies. This solution will enhance the core value JEA brings to its customers."Jackson Energy Authority serves 48,000 customers in the City of Jackson Tennessee and the surrounding areas. JEA provides electric, gas, water, wastewater, propane, cable, Internet and telephone services. Internet and telephone services are delivered over JEA's high capacity fiber optic broadband system through strategic partnerships with outside firms. JEA is a publicly owned utility operating as a governmental authority. Through the years, JEA has utilized the latest technology to better serve the needs of its customers, standing by their mission to provide exceptional utility services that create value for their customers and their community."JEA is looking forward to continuing to build on this new vendor relationship with Euclides. All through the RFP, Euclides has been a strong contender," said Teresa Irvine, Manager of APP development and project manager. She continued, "Euclides' ClickSoftware solution will bring additional features to JEA's utility and telecom field service technicians at much lower annual maintenance costs."Euclides' planned future improvements to the system include integration of mobile devices including smartphones and tablets. "We currently only have laptops deployed in the field. We are looking forward to deploying this solution onto less expensive iOS and Android mobile devices," stated Dale Justice, Programmer and technical lead on the project at JEA."We are looking forward to building on our relationship with JEA," said Adi Hod Managing Partner at Euclides. "JEA has a history of utilizing the latest technology to provide exceptional service to their customers. Euclides' ClickSoftware field management software solutions will help keep JEA on the cutting edge."Euclides Technologies is a leading provider and expert integrator of field management software solutions with offices in Tel Aviv, Israel, Cambridge, Massachusetts, and Bucuresti, Romania. Euclides Technologies has worked with a variety of clients worldwide across many industries to implement a wide range of workforce management solutions.Additional company information can be found on their website: http://www.euclidestech.com/.For more information on Jackson Energy Authority, please visit their website: www.jaxenergy.com.