The T5831 ES engineering system is ideal for test program development and device characterization, improving overall time to market. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreTOKYO--(Marketwired - Jul 8, 2013) -  Leading semiconductor test equipment supplier Advantest Corporation's (
TSE :
6857 ) (
NYSE :
ATE ) new T5831 system for testing next-generation ICs used in mobile applications, including NAND Flash with high-speed ONFi or Toggle Mode interfaces as well as managed NAND devices such as embedded multi-media cards (eMMC), is now being delivered to customers. The versatile tester also supports concurrent testing of both NAND Flash and mobile DRAM in a multi-chip package (MCP).The T5831's design enables highly parallel testing while delivering the required functionality at a low cost of test. It provides the most economical solution for today's testing needs with the upgradability to extend customers' return on investment for future requirements. The accompanying engineering solution, T5831 ES, is ideal for test program development and device characterization, improving customers' overall time to market.The system has several key features that enable the fastest test time for NAND Flash. The system's Tester-Per-Site™ architecture enables high throughput and the industry's highest device power supply current per DUT speeds up programming and erasing operations. In addition, tester hardware can perform on-the-fly analysis of error-correcting codes (ECC), eliminating all test time overhead associated with post-processing.Real-time source-synchronous functionality maximizes yields while improving throughput over traditional post-processing methods. The system automatically makes cycle-by-cycle adjustments to account for timing drifts due to differences in process-voltage-temperature (PVT) and jitter, ensuring data-eye accuracy for optimal yield at high speeds. Other necessary functions such as bad block management, redundancy analysis and custom/random data generation also are supported, making the T5831 the ideal tester for all NAND Flash testing needs."This new test solution delivers the performance that our customers need today in a modular design with the extendibility to meet tomorrow's changing test requirements," said Masuhiro Yamada, executive vice president of memory test for Advantest Corporation. "The T5831 extends Advantest's leadership in the ATE market and will add to our worldwide installed base of more than 8,000 memory test systems."About Advantest Corporation A world-class technology company, Advantest is the leading producer of automatic test equipment (ATE) for the semiconductor industry and a premier manufacturer of measuring instruments used in the design and production of electronic instruments and systems. Its leading-edge systems and products are integrated into the most advanced semiconductor production lines in the world. The company also focuses on R&D for emerging markets that benefit from advancements in nanotech and terahertz technologies, and has introduced multi-vision metrology scanning electron microscopes essential to photomask manufacturing, as well as a groundbreaking 3D imaging and analysis tool. Founded in Tokyo in 1954, Advantest established its first subsidiary in 1982, in the USA, and now has subsidiaries worldwide. More information is available at www.advantest.com.