Grantham University Chairman's Award Recipient Mark Wilson Click here for high-resolution versionMoreKANSAS CITY, MO--(Marketwired - Jul 8, 2013) -
Grantham University, an online university specializing in educating working adults, announced Mark Wilson as the University's Chairman's Award recipient at the second quarter employee town hall meeting held Thursday, June 20. Mark Wilson joined the Grantham team in 2011 and currently serves as a regional director of education outreach.Wilson is a Desert Shield / Storm Veteran who served on active duty as a Navy counselor and recruiter for 10 years. He has received many awards including five Navy Achievement Medals, as well as US Navy Recruiter of the Year and Nuclear Recruiter of the Year. Within the University, Wilson is a positive influence who leads by example and is always willing to help his co-workers. The relationships he has built with students, associations and corporations continue to positively impact the University.Wilson was nominated for the award by Les Hyde, vice president of admissions and education outreach, who said, "Mark is an outstanding employee who is constantly performing at the highest level. His optimism is contagious, and we are certainly lucky to have him. We look forward to seeing many more great things from Mark!"The education outreach team is available regionally across the United States to meet face-to-face with students, talk with new students, attend corporate events and education fairs, and provide briefings about the importance of education. The team also serves as a resource in the community for information regarding online education and the University. To learn more about Grantham University and its online degrees, visit www.grantham.edu or call 1-800-955-2527.About Grantham University: Established in 1951, Grantham University specializes in accredited online degree programs. Grantham's online undergraduate and graduate degree programs include: Accounting, Business Administration, Criminal Justice, Computer Science, Engineering Technology, Allied Health, Information Technology, Medical Coding and Billing, Nursing, Human Resource Management and Business Intelligence. Accredited since 1961 by the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council, Grantham University has a distinguished record as a respected and accredited distance learning university spanning six decades of service to education.