LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Jul 8, 2013) -
Masternaut, Europe's leading telematics provider, has completed its acquisition of data service provider E.Novation BTC, combining its telematics technology with market-leading wireless tachograph capabilities. E.Novation's digital tachograph solutions enable vehicle data to be transmitted wirelessly, as well as archived and analysed, while monitoring European toll charges and vehicle costs.With this acquisition Masternaut now has the ability to deliver its customers multiple added-value services via one core, connected platform. Fleet management and driving-time compliance will be unified into a single hardware unit, with instant, automatic and remote access to data via wireless transfer, with increased security. The next generation systems will enable Masternaut's customers to handle compliance with drivers' hours and working time directive efficiently, while greatly reducing operational costs."Fleet managers will no longer have to handle multiple platforms for telematics and tachograph functionality," said Martin Hiscox, chairman and CEO of Masternaut. "With E.Novation BTC's technology now on board, we will significantly reduce the level of time investment required - our next generation systems will deliver telematics and tachograph capability via one central, unified platform."The solution will also help customers in supporting the move towards EU Smart Tachograph in 2017-2018. The ability to store, record and download dynamic driver and vehicle data wirelessly, while automating data compilation and scheduling, improving data reliability and reducing IT complexity will significantly reduce operational and administrative overheads. It will also enable logistics companies to gain driver time and maximise fleet efficiency while improving driver safety while ensuring deadlines are never missed."Tachograph solutions are of course a necessary spur to improve road safety, but despite advances with digital systems, high administration costs are still crippling the industry," added Hiscox. "Our systems will not only greatly reduce the cost burden, but unlock the potential for tachographs to transform fleet management and maximise fleet efficiency."Story continuesThis acquisition is the latest in a series of growth announcements for Masternaut, in response to increasing demand for its telematics solutions across the European transport and logistics market. Masternaut has also taken over E.Novation BTC's Berlin office, opening its first German R&D base in order to accelerate product development in the region."The acquisition of E.Novation BTC will not only enable us to deliver Masternaut's customers more ways in which to increase the efficiency of their fleets, but will also mark the establishing our first R&D point of presence in Germany," said Martin Hiscox. "Going forwards, we're looking to build on this momentum, continuing to address the growing demand across Europe and further afield."Walther Bernard, CEO and founder of E.Novation BTC, added: "Through this acquisition, the reach of E.Novation BTC's product set is vastly expanded. Our technology is highly complementary with Masternaut's and the two combined will have the ability to make the lives of fleet managers across Europe significantly easier. Masternaut's industry expertise is second-to-none and, as we look towards the next phase of our partnership, we know we are in safe hands. We're looking forward to working together to develop and deliver the very latest in fleet innovation."About MasternautMasternaut is Europe's largest provider of telematics solutions. Founded in 1996, the company now employs over 600 telematics specialists and has more than 10,000 customers.Masternaut provides a SaaS-based Mobile Resource Management (MRM) application suite for businesses of all sizes to help them achieve greater operational efficiencies through a lowering of vehicle fuel consumption, effective tracking of assets, productivity increases in workforce, reduced vehicle wear and tear, improved management of driver behaviour, and a reduction in CO2 emissions. These solutions drive tangible savings and service improvements for customers across all parts of an organisation; from finance to HR, operations to customer service.Our suite modules range from driver performance management, fleet and consumer insurance, traditional vehicle tracking and specialist services for the transport and logistics industry, including remote digital tachograph download and temperature monitoring. Masternaut also provides highly-configurable solutions to the public sector for highways maintenance and infrastructure support.Masternaut has the largest telematics R&D team in Europe, continuously innovating to deliver the most reliable and scalable platform available. The company has over 300,000 assets, vehicles and people connected to its SaaS solutions. Over 15,000 users interact every hour with the systems, and over 50 million data transactions are processed and configured into 20,000 reports every day.With customers in 32 countries, Masternaut has multiple offices and partners throughout Europe, North America, South America and Asia.An image is available at the following address: http://media3.marketwire.com/docs/n708mst1.jpg.