NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- CHANGE IN RATINGS
Amphenol
was downgraded at Stifel Nicolaus to hold from buy. Valuation call, as the stock has gained 25% year to date, Stifel said.
Comerica
was downgraded at Oppenheimer to underperform from perform. Regional bank sector has already made a big run, Oppenheimer said.
Continental Materials
was upgraded to buy at TheStreet Ratings.
Cree
was upgraded at Sterne Agee to buy. Last week's downgrade was premature, said Sterne Agee. New estimates account for sales through distribution, national accounts and mail, Sterne Agee said. Price target goes to $72.
Caesars Entertainment
was downgraded at Credit Suisse to neutral from outperform. The recent run in the stock, said Credit Suisse.
Also see: Cubist, Optimer, Trius: Antibiotic Deal Making on Tap >>
IEC Electronics
was downgraded to hold at TheStreet Ratings.
MDC
was upgraded at Keybanc to buy. $46 price target. Stock has lagged, but the company has an attractive land supply, Keybanc said.
PulteGroup
was downgraded at Keybanc to hold. Valuation call, Keybanc said.
Rosetta Resources
was downgraded at Cowen to hold from buy. $50 price target. Stock is already pricing in the potential of the company's Permian assets, Cowen said.
Ryland
was downgraded at Keybanc to hold. Stock is already pricing in higher gross margins, Keybanc said.
Also see: Allocate Assets to Buy-Rated Dow Stocks >>
SodaStream
was downgraded at J.P. Morgan to neutral. Better-than-expected top line and earnings growth is priced in, said J.P. Morgan.
Suntrust
was downgraded at Oppenheimer to perform from outperform. Valuation call, Oppenheimer said.
STOCK COMMENTS/EPS CHANGES
Analog Devices
estimates were reduced at Citigroup. Earnings estimates were reduced to reflect weaker sales due to customers' July shut-downs and weaker gross margins, said Citigroup.
AutoZone
price target and estimates were raised at UBS. Earnings estimates were increased as sales momentum in troubled geographies pick up and the commercial business gets better, said UBS. Price target goes to $430.
Best Buy
estimates were raised at UBS. Earnings estimates were increased as operating margins are expected to be sustained via cost savings, said UBS.
Home Depot
price target and estimates were increased at UBS. Earnings estimates were increased on raised guidance after a standout quarter despite unseasonable weather, said UBS. Price target goes to $88.
Also see: Is Lack of Quality Mentorship Why Women Earn Less? >>
Medtronic
estimates, price target were boosted at Credit Suisse. Shares are now seen reaching $56. Estimates were also upped, given the company's new guidance, Credit Suisse said. Neutral rating.
NetApp
price target and estimates were raised at UBS. Announced share repurchase plans and order growth, said UBS. Price target goes to $42.
Pioneer Natural Resources
price target was raised at UBS to $155. Net asset value was raised based on encouraging results from the Northern Wolfcamp, said UBS.
AT&T
estimates were increased at Citigroup. Earnings estimates were raised given the potential for improved wireless and total revenue growth, said Citigroup.
Tidewater
estimates, price target were increased at Credit Suisse. Estimates were raised through 2014. North Sea expansion is driving growth, Credit Suisse said. Neutral rating and new $60 price target.
Tidewater price target and estimates were raised at Citigroup. Earnings estimates were for 2013 were increased as the addition of 50 new jackups joining the rig market has only shown initial sparks of improvement in performance, said Citigroup. Price target goes to $67.
TJX
price target was raised at UBS to $57 given strong momentum and long-term store growth catalysts, said UBS. 2014 earnings estimates were reduced slightly given e-commerce investment drag, UBS said.
Wisdomtree
estimates, target were increased through 2014 at Sterne Agee. Company continues to see higher asset inflows, Sterne Agee said. Buy rating and new $16 price target.
>To submit a news tip, email: tips@thestreet.com.
Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.
EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.Why Car Prices Vary From City To City7 Towns That Really Want Your Sports Team10 Greenest Cars of 2013