IRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - August 12, 2013) - The Ayn Rand Institute has announced its fifth annual New York fundraising dinner to benefit the work of the Ayn Rand Institute. The event will take place at the St. Regis Hotel in New York City on the evening of Thursday, September 26, 2013.The featured speaker for the evening will be Ken Moelis. Mr. Moelis is founder and chief executive officer of Moelis & Company, a global investment bank that provides financial advisory, capital raising and asset management services to a broad client base including corporations, institutions and governments.Mr. Moelis has over thirty years of investment banking experience. Prior to founding Moelis & Company, he worked at UBS from 2001 to 2007, where he was most recently president of UBS Investment Bank and, previously, Joint Global Head of Investment Banking.Mr. Moelis serves on the University of Pennsylvania Board of Trustees, the Wharton Board of Overseers, the Board of the Tourette Syndrome Association, and the Board of Governors of Cedars Sinai Hospital.ARI executive director Yaron Brook will also be a featured speaker."Last year's dinner was a resounding success," said Brook, "with nearly one hundred-fifty admirers of Ayn Rand, gathered at the magnificent St. Regis, enjoying a fantastic evening and making possible the Institute's most successful year to date. We expect this year's dinner to top that."There will be a live auction of various Ayn Rand-related collectibles and ephemera, with proceeds to benefit the Institute.In addition, attendees will receive complimentary tickets to a matinee performance in New York City of the Off-Broadway play Anthem, adapted for the stage by Jeff Britting (based on Ayn Rand's novel Anthem), which runs for a limited, ten-week engagement. An Audience Talk Back, featuring Yaron Brook, will follow the performance. Visit: www.anthemtheplay.comTickets for the
Atlas Shrugged
Revolution dinner event are $1,000; Table Sponsorships begin at $10,000. Register here.Where:Play: Baryshnikov Arts CenterJerome Robbins Theater450 West 37th Street (between 9th and 10th Avenues)Reception and dinner: The St. Regis New York Two East 55th Street, at Fifth AvenueNew York, NY 10022212-753-4500Thursday, September 26, 20131-2:15 PM Matinee performance: Anthem2:15-2:30 PM Audience Talk Back, featuring Yaron Brook6-7 PM Reception7-9 PM Dinner and programNote: Business attire is required for the dinner event.The Ayn Rand Institute is a 501(c)(3) organization dedicated to promoting the philosophy of Ayn Rand, author of "Atlas Shrugged" and "The Fountainhead." For more information on Objectivism and Ayn Rand, visit www.aynrand.org.