LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2013) -
BCS Global Network Limited, a leading worldwide provider of managed videoconferencing, telepresence, and visual collaboration services, announces a strategic partnership with Vidtel to provide Virtual Connect, a new cloud-based, any-to-any video conferencing service.When it comes to video conferencing, businesses struggle with the complexities around multi-vendor interoperability and the difficulty of communicating across different video conferencing systems. Often there is significant capital expenditure required in the installation of multiple video conferencing systems and a significant spend in expertise to maintain these systems. Virtual Connect is a cloud-based offering connecting SIP, H.323, Skype and Google Talk in one virtual meeting space accessible to everyone via the internet. The solution is an affordable, easy to use service, while maintaining quality and usability and is designed for the SMB and large enterprise space.The partnership between BCS Global and Vidtel capitalises on the strengths and expertise of both partners to deliver Virtual Connect. BCS Global's experience with cloud-based and customer hosted infrastructure solutions gives BCS Global strong distribution channels to take Virtual Connect into the marketplace. Vidtel's proven architecture supports consumer technologies and acts as a perfect incubation partner for new services and capabilities like Virtual Connect. Mark Matone, Head of Products at BCS Global, described the partnership as "an exciting development in the continued evolution of Virtual Connect, which will have a transformative effect on video conferencing, helping accelerate the adoption rate of visual communications across the marketplace by providing users with a single easy to use service".Scott Wharton, CEO of Vidtel had this to say about the partnership; "We are delighted to be working with BCS Global. BCS Global is a true pioneer and innovator in the video conferencing services market and really understands the unique requirements to deliver high quality, interoperable video to both enterprise customers and SMBs, around the world."Moving forward into the future BCS Global will continue to develop Virtual Connect, adding additional layers of value and connectivity options.Virtual Connect is available from 14th August 2013, and if you would like to receive more information please email success@bcsglobal.com.About BCS GlobalBCS Global Networks Ltd is a leading worldwide provider of cloud-based and customer hosted managed visual communication and collaboration services. BCS Global provides innovative visual communications from telepresence to desktop and mobile solutions, allowing end-users to communicate on a reliable service; any time, any place, regardless of location, time, network or device.Headquartered in the UK, with offices and infrastructure in New York, Toronto, Shanghai and Hong Kong, BCS Global has a range of customers in over 85 countries across the globe. All customers receive the best-in-class solutions that enable them to evolve their use of visual communications.About VidtelVidtel is a pioneer of any-to-any cloud video conferencing services. Our easy-to-use service provides compatibility between a diverse set of business-grade SIP and H.323 (e.g., Polycom, Cisco, LifeSize) and consumer-grade video endpoints, including WebRTC-based browser applications. Vidtel enables enterprises of any size to affordably experience the productivity of business-quality video conferencing between dispersed employees, partners and customers. Vidtel is located in Silicon Valley in Sunnyvale, California. www.vidtel.com.