SUNNYVALE, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2013) -
Bitzer Mobile Inc., a technology leader in enterprise mobility, today announced that it has entered into a partnership with Neohapsis, a renowned mobile and cloud security services firm. This partnership enables the broader adoption of mobile technologies by enterprises that wish to enhance business agility for real-time decision making. By combining solutions and services, each company can deliver enhanced application security and a secure enterprise workspace for mobile device users. Employees get seamless and secure access, via Single Sign-On (SSO), to corporate data and applications."Bitzer facilitates employee productivity by giving them easy, secure access to corporate intranet resources and data while 'on the go' from their mobile devices (smartphones, tablets, etc.) without compromising security or the end-user experience," said Naeem Zafar, CEO, Bitzer Mobile. "We're excited to partner with Neohapsis, one of the most trusted names in enterprise mobility and cloud security services, to enable organizations to embrace these emerging technologies."The Bitzer Mobile solution offers enterprise-grade security, authentication and access control for mobile business. Bitzer's BEAM platform:creates a "secure sandbox" container around enterprise apps without the need to modify a single line of code; provides secure, authenticated access to Windows network intranet files without demanding that the data be moved to the cloud -- IT tools for application and security policy provisioning are also accessible via the Admin console; and ensures Data Leakage Prevention (DLP), which can be extended to mobile devices."Neohapsis' primary mission is to ensure that business performance is enabled by information security. With the emergence of mobile and cloud computing, opportunities and challenges have grown for our clients," said James Mobley, president and CEO, Neohapsis.Neohapsis enables organizations in sectors like financial services, retail, high technology, healthcare, energy and government to address constantly evolving information security and compliance challenges."Bitzer's secure container offering is ideal for enterprises that place a priority on providing employees with authenticated mobile access to corporate data via mobile devices, including SharePoint," Mobley continued. "By partnering with Bitzer, we share our mutual aim to empower enterprises to embrace mobile adoption. This can only happen if data protection and compliance mandates are met."About Neohapsis (www.neohapsis.com) Neohapsis, a trusted provider of security and risk management services, works with global commercial enterprises and public entities to address constantly evolving information security and compliance challenges. By leveraging the company's advanced security expertise, research and tools, Neohapsis is helping organizations secure mobile applications, protect distributed applications, accelerate cloud adoption, achieve compliance with regulatory requirements, implement SDLC processes for moving enterprise applications to mobile and cloud platforms, and more.About Bitzer Mobile Bitzer Mobile Inc., a leading enterprise mobility solution provider, enhances employee productivity by allowing secure access to corporate apps and data from mobile devices while preserving rich user experience. Its secure container solution creates the enterprise workspace on any mobile device -- corporate owned or personal, and for all mobile platforms. Employees get seamless access to intranet, corporate data and apps with enterprise-grade security and deep integration with Windows Authentication for true Single Sign-On. For more information, please visit www.bitzermobile.comAll names and trademarks are the property of their respective firms.