JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2013) -  In terms of JSE Listings Requirement 3.63, AngloGold Ashanti (
NYSE :
AU ) gives notice that an executive director of the company has purchased ordinary shares of the company, after receiving clearance to do so as required by Listing Requirement 3.66. Details of the purchase are provided below:
Name of director   Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan
Name of company   AngloGold Ashanti Limited
Date of transaction   12 August 2013
Nature of transaction   On-market purchase of shares
Class of security   Ordinary shares
Number of shares   12,500
Average price of shares purchased
R128.65
Lowest price of shares purchased   R128.35
Highest Price of shares purchased   R128.90
Value of shares purchased including brokerage and other fees   R1, 618, 566.00
Type of Interest   Direct Beneficial
This purchase of 12,500 shares by Mr Srinivasan Venkatakrishnan, together with previous purchases of 3,429 shares in February 2013 and 10,000 shares in May 2013, takes Mr Venkatakrishnan's equity shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti from 52,508 shares at the start of the year to his current holding 78,437 shares.JSE Sponsor: UBS South Africa (Pty) LimitedDisclaimer Certain statements contained in this document, other than statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, those concerning the economic outlook for the gold mining industry, expectations regarding gold prices, production, cash costs, cost savings and other operating results, return on equity, productivity improvements, growth prospects and outlook of AngloGold Ashanti's operations, individually or in the aggregate, including the achievement of project milestones, commencement and completion of commercial operations of certain of AngloGold Ashanti's exploration and production projects and the completion of acquisitions and dispositions, AngloGold Ashanti's liquidity and capital resources and capital expenditures and the outcome and consequence of any potential or pending litigation or regulatory proceedings or environmental issues, are forward-looking statements regarding AngloGold Ashanti's operations, economic performance and financial condition. These forward-looking statements or forecasts involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause AngloGold Ashanti's actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Although AngloGold Ashanti believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements and forecasts are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, social and political and market conditions, the success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, including environmental approvals, fluctuations in gold prices and exchange rates, the outcome of pending or future litigation proceedings, and business and operational risk management. For a discussion of such risk factors, refer to the prospectus supplement to AngloGold Ashanti's prospectus dated 17 July 2012 that was filed with the SEC on 26 July 2013. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause AngloGold Ashanti's actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. Consequently, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except to the extent required by applicable law. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to AngloGold Ashanti or any person acting on its behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements herein. This communication may contain certain "Non-GAAP" financial measures. AngloGold Ashanti utilises certain Non-GAAP performance measures and ratios in managing its business. Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the reported operating results or cash flow from operations or any other measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. In addition, the presentation of these measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures other companies may use. AngloGold Ashanti posts information that is important to investors on the main page of its website at www.anglogoldashanti.com and under the "Investors" tab on the main page. This information is updated regularly. Investors should visit this website to obtain important information about AngloGold Ashanti.