FREMONT, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2013) - Foxit® Corporation, a leading provider of solutions for reading, editing, creating, organizing, and securing PDF documents, today launched Foxit Reader 6 and Foxit PhantomPDF 6 in the German, French, Spanish, Russian, and Portuguese languages."We are excited to introduce localized translations of Foxit Reader and PhantomPDF into Russia. Offering free PDF creation in Foxit Reader will be game changing. The new ribbon toolbar will make it easy for users to transition to Foxit." said Igor Sverchkov, Director of Novaintech Ltd. "Our customers require fast, cost effective, and secure business-ready PDF solutions and Foxit delivers."Foxit Reader's success and popularity has resulted over 150 million users, making it the second most used PDF technology in the industry. New capabilities of the free Foxit Reader 6 include:PDF Creation - providing a complete PDF creation solution.
Quick, one-click PDF creation from Microsoft® Word®, PowerPoint®, and Excel®
High performance PDF conversion from hundreds of file types by:
Convert hardcopy documents into PDF
Extend any application with print capabilities to include PDF conversion through the included Foxit Reader PDF Printer (PDF print driver).
Cutting and pasting content via the Windows clipboard into a new PDF
New Ribbon-based Toolbar - based on Microsoft® Office® 2013 (Office 15) design, providing users with a familiar user experience. PDF Sign - allows users to sign documents with their own handwriting. Create and Insert Stamps Read and Search PDF Portfolios Integrate with Evernote"We are expecting great performance from the Foxit Reader and PhantomPDF Spanish and Portuguese versions in our Latin American channel," said Rodrigo Villar, CEO of Targetware group. "Foxit provides businesses and governmental organizations a powerful but cost effective solution which solves all their PDF-related needs in their local language."Foxit PhantomPDF 6 is a fast, affordable, and secure PDF solution that allows users to create, edit, and secure professional looking PDF documents and forms. New capabilities in Foxit PhantomPDF 6 include:Paragraph Editing - provides editing capabilities similar to that of word processing software. PDF Form Creation - allows quick and easy development of interactive PDF forms through automated form field recognition and editing. New Ribbon-based Toolbar - based on Microsoft® Office® 2013 (Office 15) design, providing users with a familiar user experience. PDF Sign - allows users to sign documents with their own handwriting. Read and Search PDF Portfolios Editing Scanned Documents Drag and Drop Pages Between Documents Bundled Desktop PDF Index - now bundled with Foxit's PDF IFilter - Desktop product. Integrate with Evernote Improved File Compression
PDF A, E, and X Creation and Validation PhantomPDF 6 comes in two editions:PhantomPDF Standard - Ideal for groups of all sizes, Foxit PhantomPDF Standard delivers the right features at the right price for users to generate professional looking PDF documents and forms. It allows users to view, create, edit, comment, share, secure, organize, export, OCR, and sign PDF documents and forms.
PhantomPDF Business - Robust and deployable to meet the needs of enterprises, Foxit PhantomPDF Business builds upon PhantomPDF Standard by providing additional editing, security, and file compression capabilities.
"Having a completely localized solution with Foxit Reader and PhantomPDF 6 provides a compelling and cost effective solution that IT organization can standardize on," said Marc Gloning, CEO of SOS Software Service GmbH. "With free creation in Foxit Reader and the new editing and form creation capabilities in PhantomPDF, Foxit provides a feature rich solution that our customers require at a great value.""The combination of Foxit Reader and PhantomPDF 6 enables enterprise knowledge workers to be more productive in creating, editing, organizing, and searching PDF documents and forms within the Foxit PDF platform," said Phil Lee, VP of Enterprise Sales at Foxit Corporation. "Enterprises now have a proven and secure alternative to Adobe, at a superior value, and in their local language."For more information, contact Foxit at www.foxitsoftware.com or at 1-866-MYFOXIT.About Foxit Corporation Foxit Corporation, a Microsoft Gold Certified Partner, is at the forefront of cost-effective electronic document solutions. Customers of Foxit's award-winning products include major technology and healthcare companies, global financial services firms, and government agencies. Founded in 2001, Foxit Corporation believes in innovative, standards-based technology and unrivalled customer support, with a deep commitment to sustainable, environmentally sound products and services.Foxit is a registered trademark of Foxit Corporation. Other trademarked names or terms used in this document are the properties of their respective owners.