Image: http://www.accesswire.com/images/546/GeoiNAVwithIMU_W.jpgSPRINGFIELD, VA. AUGUST 12, 2013. Geodetics Incorporated, a manufacturer of high-accuracy, real-time positioning and navigation solutions, has partnered with NavtechGPS to market Geodetics’ unique line of affordable real-time positioning and navigation systems, to bring ever greater precise navigation capabilities to both military and commercial customers for a variety of applications."The Geodetics systems have perhaps the most unique features in the GPS market today. The systems are able to have embedded in them a range of GPS receiver boards from most every high-end GPS manufacturer on the market," says NavtechGPS Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Franck Boynton. “This helps to ensure compatibility with your existing systems.”These systems are built to military-specified standards (Mil-spec), and are ready to perform in rugged environments for the most demanding applications. Other features, including optional built-in TDMA (time division multiple access) radio links and networking capabilities, further set these receiver systems apart from others.The Geodetics Geo-iNAV™ family of products is an affordable, fully-integrated GPS-aided inertial navigation system offered in commercial and SAASM configurations to meet a range of inertial navigation application requirements. Applications for Geo-iNAV™ includes navigation for manned and unmanned air, sea and ground vehicles, high-dynamic aircraft navigation and tracking, robotic control, mapping, gas and oil exploration, agriculture, transportation (safety and maintenance), construction and structural management.In addition to Geo-iNAV™, NavtechGPS will also distribute Geodetics’ Geo-Pointer™, a high-accuracy, real-time heading system for dynamic platforms based on GPS, as well as the rest of the Geodetics product line.Image: http://www.accesswire.com/images/546/NavtechGPS%20logoVSml.jpgAbout NavtechGPS:NavtechGPS has nearly 30 years of experience in GPS/GNSS and precise positioning technology. As a distributor of GPS and GNSS related products, NavtechGPS delivers innovative solutions for military, commercial and research COTS integration projects. NavtechGPS has been a critical team member on hundreds of projects and has helped its partners win competitive programs. NavtechGPS is also a world leader in GPS/GNSS education with a comprehensive list of course offerings taught by world-class instructors who have educated thousands of GNSS professionals since 1984. For more information about NavtechGPS, its products, services and seminars, visit www.NavtechGPS.com. (A Woman-Owned Small Business 8(m)).NavtechGPS Contact:Franck Boynton, VP and CTONavtechGPS5501 Backlick Road, Suite 230Springfield, VA 22151www.NavtechGPS.comemail: fboynton@navtechgps.comTel: 1-703-256-8900; Fax: 1-703-256-8988About Geodetics Inc.:Geodetics Inc. is a privately held woman-owned small business (8m) founded in 1999 headquarters in San Diego, California. Geodetics develops and markets real-time, high-precision positioning and navigation systems and solutions for military and civilian applications requiring the highest levels of precision. Their products have been used in a wide range of commercial and military applications around the world. For more information about Geodetics, visit www.geodetics.com.Geodetics Incorporated Contact:Dr. Jeff Fayman, VP Planning and DevelopmentGeodetics, Inc.2649 Ariane DriveSan Diego, CA 92117www.Geodetics.comemail: jfayman@geodetics.comTel; 1-858-729-0872; Fax: 1-858-729-0874