SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO, CA and ABILENE, TX--(Marketwired - Aug 12, 2013) -
TextPower, a leader in innovative text messaging software solutions, today announced that Milsoft Utility Solutions, Inc. has become the first TextPower Certified Integration Partner for its integration of the TextPower platform with its DisSPatch® Outage Management System (OMS), allowing consumers to text in outage notifications directly to the utility."We are extremely pleased to have Milsoft incorporate our texting platform into their systems to vastly improve the effectiveness of managing power outage situations with consumers," said Mark Nielsen, Executive Chairman and co-founder of TextPower. "The ability to give consumers immediate control of reporting or checking the status of outages significantly reduces the burden on a utility's operational staff while vastly improving the consumer experience and information flow."Milsoft, based in Abilene, Texas, provides software solutions for the utility industry that enable electrical power customers with rapid information services regarding their utility via text messaging services through its Milsoft Communications (IVR) and DisSPatch OMS solutions. Milsoft has successfully leveraged TextPower's text messaging platform for utilities to reach their customers immediately, greatly improving customer service, and the two companies recently announced a new Milsoft IVR/OMS integration that delivers a seamless integrated voice response and outage management system incorporating two-way texting. "Milsoft utility industry customers can now offer the additional capability for consumers to send a text saying their power is out, which simultaneously works with our OMS to automatically create an event. The integration provides real-time reporting control to the consumers as well as helping the utilities quickly identify customers who need assistance," explained Brian Carr, Vice President of Sales, Milsoft.Milsoft OMS is used by more than 250 electric utilities to detect, evaluate and respond to customer service outages more quickly and effectively. Automated collection, organization, analysis and display of relevant data improves employee productivity and effectiveness, especially during severe system outage events. "The TextPower SMS gateway makes real-time IVR possible and we're now taking it to a new level with two-way texting. Our utility customers are very excited about this technology and the communications breakthrough it provides," Carr said."The TextPower Certified Integration Partner program is an important step not only for our companies but for the utility industry and its customers, and we anticipate other leading integrators will join Milsoft in the movement towards improved communications," said Nielsen.Utilities of all sizes throughout the U.S. use TextPower's SmartAlerts™ to help them communicate directly with their customers during outages and peak usage periods, to alert them of low balances and enable payment to avoid disconnects, as well as notify them during severe weather and other disaster emergencies. SmartAlerts are also deployed for planned notifications such as load shedding, planned interruptions and pole inspections/right of way contractor notices.For more information about TextPower's services for utilities or other industries call 818.222.8600 or email Info@TextPower.com. About Milsoft Utility Solutions, Inc. The Milsoft team has provided industry leading engineering and operations software and support to electric utilities in the US and abroad for more than 25 years. Some 1,000 utilities, consultants, universities and others use Milsoft solutions for planning, analysis and operations. Milsoft's E&O System integrates Milsoft's Engineering Analysis, Outage Management, Geographic Information, Field Engineering and IVR Communications with each other and with a utility's other applications and data to enable the most efficient and effective planning, operation and management of an intelligent grid. Learn more at: www.milsoft.com.About TextPower, Inc. TextPower, Inc. provides alerting and authentication solutions to a variety of industries worldwide using text messaging (SMS). The company's software and text messaging services help companies enhance their revenues, decrease costs and improve customer service. TextPower's authentication product, TextKey™, replaces the token or security fob previously needed to verify the identity of online users for password-protected applications. TextPower's mission-critical infrastructure employs geo-redundancy for the industry's highest reliability, providing delivery to virtually every cell phone in the United States and connections to most recognized wireless operators around the world. Visit http://www.TextPower.com, email Info@TextPower.com or call 888.818.1808 for more information.