LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Aug 26, 2013) -
George Media Inc. is pleased to announce that the September issue of The International Resource Journal is now available online at http://www.internationalresourcejournal.com/E-MAG/2013/Sep/IRJ.php.This issue focuses on the unsung heroes of the resource industry: the equipment suppliers, contractors and service suppliers allow the operators to achieve their goals. To highlight the innovation of these companies, we look at the resource industry's biggest story of the moment: autonomous mining.Speaking to one of the first people to automate mining machinery, we discuss the technicalities, benefits, challenges and wider implications of bringing autonomy to the mine site. There's opportunity to see the technology in action, and to contemplate why the industry has been slow to embrace robotics.Continuing our 'unsung heroes' theme, we examine the evolving relationship between operators and contractors. We showcase the talents of construction and maintenance support company Goodline; drill repair, supply and operation provider RocHard Drilling; and environmental compliance consultancy and technology developer Pacific Environment.Featured companies this month include innovative alternative energy companies from around the world and Australia's most up and coming minerals and oil & gas companies.About The International Resource JournalThe International Resource Journal is read by thousands of senior executives from medium to large companies across the world. IRJ focuses on the global business of alternative energy, mining, oil and gas and renewable fuels. Each monthly issue features regular columns, regional and individual sector focuses, profiles of industry associations, industry bodies and keynote interviews with corporate leaders running successful local and international enterprises. The IRJ keeps readers informed of current industry topics and trends at home and abroad, while offering companies a valuable platform to promote and network their products and services.George Media Inc. is proud to promote resources businesses from the world. For more information, visit our website at www.irjonline.com.