DG Peer39 is first to provide content and safety data for Japanese pages in RTBWebsite context data helps advertisers both target and protect ad investmentsNew York, NY, and Tokyo, Japan - September 18, 2013 - DG (DGIT), the world`s leading multiscreen ad management company, announced today that the DG Peer39 pre-bid page analysis toolset is now available for the Japanese market through Peer39 partners Brandscreen, MediaMath and Turn, with full contextual data available in the Japanese language. DG Peer39 is the leading provider of data based on the content and structure of web pages for the purpose of improving the relevance and effectiveness of online display advertising and the first to have dynamic page level data available in Japanese.Peer39 technology analyzes webpages to surface key attributes that advertisers use to control the placements they buy in real time bidding environments. These signals are available on virtually every impression, giving buyers tremendous scale for targeting campaigns and ensuring a safer and more desirable environment. These attributes include ad visibility as well as content category, content quality indicators and safety attributes such as free from profanity. Peer39 data has been used to inform bid strategies on hundreds of thousands of campaigns in nine languages around the world."We`re pleased to bring the industry`s most sophisticated verification technology to the Japanese market, the second biggest advertising marketing in the world," says Alex White, GM Data & Trading at DG. "Japanese advertisers and those marketing to Japanese consumers will now have outstanding control over both the context in which their ads appear and the level of visibility their placements provide. Peer39 data assists in protecting brands and driving higher ROI for our customers and partners."About DG DG (DGIT) is the leading global multiscreen advertising management and distribution platform, fueling campaign management across TV, online, mobile and beyond. Through a combination of technology and services, DG empowers brands and advertisers to work faster, smarter and more competitively. Boasting the world`s largest hybrid satellite and internet network for broadcast video delivery, the company`s unparalleled campaign management encompasses multiscreen ad delivery, cross-channel research and analytics, and unified asset management.  The DG product portfolio consists of two overarching product lines for online and video campaign management: MediaMind and VideoFusion.DG Peer39 is the leading provider of data based on the content and structure of web pages for the purpose of improving the relevance and effectiveness of online display advertising. Peer39 data attributes are critical to Real Time Bidding (RTB). Peer39 analyzes pages across multiple supply sources and surfaces page level attributes across three channels: Quality, Safety, Category, and any format, with a focus on display and video. This enables buyers to make bidding and buying decisions based on Peer39 page level attributes, aligning page environment with the brand, product or creative message defined by the advertisers. Peer39 has been proven to deliver value and performance, while adhering to the strictest cookie-free privacy standards, positioning it to be included in each and every ad buy in RTB.With New York as a center of operations, DG is a global company that connects over 14,000 advertisers and 7,400 agencies worldwide with their targeted audiences through an expansive network of over 50,000 media destinations across TV broadcast and digital advertising in over 70 countries, managing approximately ten percent of the world`s media assets.   For more information, visit http://www.dgit.com.Media Contact: Dana MillerNYC press@dgit.comJun NegishiTokyojnegishi@dgit.comThis announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: MediaMind via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1729770