OTTAWA, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Sep 17, 2013) -
The Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) and Gort's Gouda Cheese Farm (EST 4478) are warning the public not to consume cheese products described below because they may be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7.This recall is the result of an ongoing food safety investigation initiated as a result of a recent outbreak investigation. There may be recalls of additional products as the investigation at this facility continues.All sizes of the raw milk cheeses listed below are affected by this recall:
Product
Medium Gouda Cheese Quaso de Prato
Aged Quaso de Prato
X Aged Quaso de Prato
Cumin Quaso de Prato
Greek Blend: Onion, Paprika, Parsley, Pepper, Thyme, Oregano Quaso de Prato
Gouda Cheese with Jalapeno Peppers Quaso de Prato
Smoked Gouda Cheese Quaso de Prato
Gouda Cheese with Red Peppers, Ginger Onions & Garlic Quaso de Prato
Peppercorn, Ginger, Paprika, Onion & Garlic Quaso de Prato
Parsley, Celery, Onion, Garlic, Dill & Chives Quaso de Prato
Maasdammer
Beaufort
Parmesan
Mazouda
These affected products were sold at the manufacturer's outlet, at retail stores in Alberta and British Columbia, and through internet sale from May 27 to September 14, 2013, inclusive.Lot codes 122 to 138 are affected by this recall.Some product packages may not bear a lot code or indicate that the cheese was made with raw milk. These products were also sold clerk-served from deli counters with or without a label or coding. Consumers who are unsure if they have purchased the affected product are advised to contact their retailer.There have been reported illnesses associated with the consumption of these products.Food contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 may not look or smell spoiled. Consumption of food contaminated with these bacteria my cause serious and potentially life-threatening illnesses. Symptoms include severe abdominal pain and bloody diarrhoea. Some people may have seizures or strokes and some may need blood transfusions and kidney dialysis. Others may live with permanent kidney damage. In severe cases of illness, people may die.The manufacturer, Gort's Gouda Cheese Farm, Salmon Arm, BC is voluntarily recalling the affected products from the marketplace. The CFIA is monitoring the effectiveness of the recall.For more information, consumers and industry can contact the CFIA by filling out the online feedback form at http://www.inspection.gc.ca/contactus.For more information on foodborne pathogens, visit the Causes of Food Poisoning web page at: http://inspection.gc.ca/food_poisoningFor information on all food recalls, visit the CFIA's Food Recall Report at: http://www.inspection.gc.ca/recallsTo find out more about receiving recalls by e-mail, and other food safety facts, visit: www.foodsafety.gc.ca. Food and consumer product recalls are also available at http://www.healthycanadians.gc.ca