SOUTHLAKE, TX--(Marketwired - Aug 23, 2013) - Swordfish Financial, Inc. (
OTCQB :
SWRF ) announces completion of the acquisition of iPoint Television, LLC."It's been a long but productive process and I'm proud to say that iPoint Television has found the right capitalization vehicle and the perfect team of investors willing to move into the huge Smart Media Market. Together with Swordfish Financial, Inc. we anticipate a fantastic future," said Mr. Clark Ortiz, President & CEO of Swordfish Financial, Inc.iPoint TV is a Smart media & entertainment company, which holds development licenses from Apple, Android, Google, Roku, Kindle and other smart devices. For over 2 years iPoint has developed and launched mobile APPs in this increasingly growing market.Details of the acquisition as well as iPoint TV business plan will be made available via 8K and updates will be posted on Swordfish Financial, Inc. website over the weekend.Swordfish Financial, Inc. acquired 90,000,000 Units of iPoint's 100,000,000 total Units securing the control of iPoint TV. Previous investors of iPoint hold the remaining 10% of the units.About Swordfish Financial, Inc.Swordfish Financial, Inc. (SFI) is a publicly held diversified financial company designed to acquire undercapitalized assets with a high level of profitability in the digital, entertainment and Smart technology industries. SFI develops capital while providing valuable opportunity of loans and or investment in, small and medium sized organizations with the goal of increasing investor value.Forward-Looking Statements:Contained; forward-looking statements about management's view of SFI's future expectations, plans and prospects. Statements made are forward-looking which involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the results of SFI to be materially different than those expressed or implied in such statements. These risk factors and others are included from time to time in documents that SFI files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to, its Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and Form 8-Ks. SFI cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these statements. Finally, SFI undertakes no obligation to update these statements after the date of this release, except as required by law, and also takes no obligation to update or correct information prepared by third parties that are not paid for by SFI.