ANGUILLA, BRITISH WEST INDIES--(Marketwired - Jun 4, 2013) - Bingo.com, Ltd. (BNGOF), owner of the popular online gaming community http://www.bingo.com, today announced it has closed an additional private placement of one million common shares at $0.45 per share to raise net proceeds of $450,000. The shares have been placed with a non-US private company."The funds raised in this private placement will be used to finance the worldwide launch of Bingo.com's multi-platform social bingo game," commented Jason Williams, Bingo.com's CEO. "The initial results of the beta testing of Trophy Bingo have been positive and we are preparing for the global launch of the brand once some product refinements are complete."For full details of the Companies operations and financial results, please refer to the Securities and Exchange Commission website at www.sec.gov or the Bingo.com website at http://www.bingo.com.About Bingo.comBingo.com, Ltd. (BNGOF) is the parent company of the Bingo.com group of companies which own the popular online gaming community http://www.bingo.com. The Bingo.com website offers multiplayer bingo, slot machines, sweepstakes, and more. Players come together from around the world to chat, share, play and win at Bingo.com. The Bingo.com website has attracted millions of visitors from over 200 countries and is one of the most recognized and most visited bingo entertainment destinations on the Internet. Bingo.com operates its multi-language and multi-currency bingo and casino system as part of the Unibet partner program (http://www.unibet.com).. Bingo.com, Ltd. (OTCQB:BNGOF) trades on the OTCQB, the venture marketplace for companies that are current in their reporting with a U.S. regulator. Investors can find real time quotes and market information for the Company at http://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/BNGOF/quote.The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" for forward-looking statements. Certain information included in this press release (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by the company) contains statements that are forward-looking, such as statements relating to anticipated future success of the company. Such forward-looking information involves important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the company. For a description of additional risks and uncertainties, please refer to the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Specifically, readers should read the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the SEC on March 29, 2013, and the prospectus filed under Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act on March 9, 2005 and the SB2 filed July 17, 2007, for a more thorough discussion of the Company's financial position and results of operations, together with a detailed discussion of the risk factors involved in an investment in Bingo.com, Ltd.