LOS ANGELES, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 4, 2013) - Drinks Americas Holdings, LTD. (
PINKSHEETS :
DKAM ), leading developer and marketer of alcoholic beverages, announced today the development of Drinks Americas Consumer Beverage Consulting Division, which helps alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverage brands get to market effectively and efficiently, providing consulting, strategic planning, and distribution solutions for promising brands."This new division will prove to be a valuable asset to many new brands that are flooding the market," said Tim Owens, CEO of Drinks Americas. "There are many brands that start out with a great product but no resources or business plan for sales and marketing."Through several strategic partners, this new division can provide a turnkey solution for companies or individuals wanting to start a new brand. Drinks Americas Consumer Beverage Consulting Division has relationships with breweries and distilleries, bottling plants, distributors, sales people, brokers and marketing companies. "We have used these resources in the past for our own brands and now have decided we can use them to help other brands," said Owens. "We began months ago interviewing brand owners and have narrowed the list to five promising brands that we plan to bring to market soon."The first brand that has already been launched is Rio Bravo craft beer from Mexico. Owens said, "We were excited and happy to see the response Rio Bravo has received from the National chain retailers and distributors and anticipate a similar response for future brands."About Drinks AmericasDrinks Americas develops, owns, markets, and nationally distributes fine imported beers. Drinks Americas works to connect innovative brand owners, marketers, and private equity firms to facilitate significant revenue growth through identifying market opportunities. With this new division, we will help forge national and global strategic partnerships."Safe HarborExcept for the historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this release, including the description of the company and its product offerings, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including the historical volatility and low trading volume of our stock, the risk and uncertainties inherent in the early stages of growth companies, the company's need to raise substantial additional capital to proceed with its business, risks associated with competitors, and other risks detailed from time to time in the company's most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. The company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.