PORTLAND, OR--(Marketwired - Jun 5, 2013) - Global digital display technologies manufacturer InFocus Corp. recently released its IN1110A and IN1112A mobile projectors. This line of projectors delivers the maximum levels of portability, image quality and device compatibility.At just 2.7 pounds, the IN1110A Series of mobile projectors is extremely lightweight. Users can lighten their travel load even further by leaving the cables -- or even their entire computer -- at home. The optional wireless module available for the IN1110A Series allows users to display files or even a live video feed from their notebook, tablet or smartphone with ease. These projectors can also display files directly from its 4GB of internal memory or a USB thumb drive."The IN1110A Series meets InFocus's high standards for display quality and device compatibility," said Dave Duncan, product marketing manager for InFocus. "It is optimized to provide the best display in a variety of settings and from a variety of devices. This allows it to be deployed quickly and easily without the need for a lot of peripherals like a projector screen, cables or even a computer."Despite the projector's small size and light weight, the IN1110A Series is capable of delivering 2200 lumens, which can provide a clear, high-definition display, even when it's competing with ambient light sources. Because the IN1110A Series is designed for maximum portability, it also features presets for common display surfaces when a projector screen is not available. The IN1110A Series can project clear images on whiteboards, beige walls or blackboards, and features an automatic keystone correction that keeps the display image as square to the surface as possible. The IN1110A Series has been designed with connectivity at its core. Its built-in software allows users to access documents, videos, images and audio files directly from its 4GB of internal memory storage or a USB drive.The optional wireless network adapter gives users the ability to access files from any Wi-Fi capable computer, laptop or mobile device, eliminating the need to carry cables. Users can also annotate on documents and save the changes.Additionally, the IN1110A Series can connect to display sources through its HDMI, VGA and composite video inputs. The projectors also support Blu-ray 3D content via the HDMI port, and audio is supported through 3.5mm input and output ports."These projectors are designed for the easiest setup, making them perfect for giving on-the-go presentations," said Duncan. "We want users to be able to connect simply and receive a superior-quality display, without a lengthy or cumbersome setup. The IN1110A Series provides the perfect mix of high-quality display and portability."About InFocus Corp. InFocus leads with creative solutions for successful visual collaboration in large venues, conference rooms, classrooms and workstations throughout the world. In 2011, the company created the Mondopad, a giant touch PC/tablet hybrid that makes content more immersive, audiences more involved and every interaction more engaging, as it brings together all of the collaboration tools people need to visually present, capture and share ideas. For more information, visit the company's website at www.infocus.com or Facebook page at www.facebook.com/InFocusCorp, or follow InFocus on Twitter at @InFocusCorp and @InFocusEDU.Photos Available Upon Request