LONDON and NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jun 5, 2013) - Investor Analytics LLC (IA), working closely with Albourne Partners, announces a hedge fund OPERA reporting service for savvy managers to show investors how the risk in their portfolios translates directly into returns."The long-overdue OPERA initiative provides fund managers with a risk aggregation communications tool that speaks transparently with institutional investors seeking board-quality data," said Damian Handzy, CEO of Investor Analytics. "Gone are the days when managers could rely on the 'secret sauce' explanation. Early adopters have recognized that helping investors allocate to their funds is just good common sense," said Handzy.Investor Analytics provides OPERA as a stand-alone service and as part of its full risk transparency platform. The Investor Analytics Grade 1 OPERA reports deliver data for:Equity Exposure Sovereign & Interest Rate Exposure Credit Convertibles Currency Exposure Real Assets & Commodity Exposure VaR Sensitivity StressesClick here to download the Investor Analytics OPERA fact sheet.Investor Analytics is the selected risk analytics and reporting partner for hedge funds seeking:Tailored and cost-effective risk aggregation and reporting services. The risk analytics independence preferred by global regulatory agencies. Established relationships with global prime brokers, custodians and administrators. The ability to quickly onboard even the largest portfolios and provide a dedicated client service team to personally guide them through the process. Custom summary reports delivered via .csv, Excel and PDF files. To learn more about our OPERA services and the Investor Analytics platform, please call David Fletcher at + 44 (0) 7572 606 269, Michael Poisson at +1 646.553.4501, or email info@investoranalytics.com. Investor Analytics processes more than USD 380 billion under analytics daily. www.investoranalytics.com. Follow us on Twitter @trustedrisk.The foregoing contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are not historical facts and include expressions about management's confidence and strategies and management's expectations about new and existing programs and products, relationships, opportunities, taxation, technology and market conditions. These statements may be identified by such forward-looking terminology as "expect," "look," "believe," "anticipate," "may," "will," or similar statements or variations of such terms. Actual results may differ materially from such forward-looking statements. IA assumes no obligation for updating any such forward-looking statements at any time. For further information please visit: www.investoranalytics.com