SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH--(Marketwired - Jun 4, 2013) -
Neutron Interactive is excited to announce that a new education brand, MechanicSchool.com, is being released. MechanicSchool.com is an online resource geared toward all individuals interested in pursuing a career in any mechanical field.As more and more schools are cutting out repair programs and high school graduates are seeking other opportunities, the number of individuals interested in pursuing mechanics is dropping. However, top mechanics are reaching retirement age and the need for new, intelligent, and hardworking mechanics is greater than ever. Not only are mechanics immune to outsourcing, but a looming shortage has also made them incredibly valuable; the average auto mechanic makes close to $40,000 a year. Additionally, it is estimated that there will be a 17 percent growth in the demand for mechanics from 2010 to 2020.As a response to this need for educated and trained mechanics, Neutron Interactive took action by creating MechanicSchool.com. This website is providing prospective mechanics with all the information they need to make an informed decision regarding their education and their career. MechanicSchool.com offers a comprehensive compilation of all mechanical schools in the USA; students can search for schools by program, by state or by zip code.In addition to providing detailed information on a variety of different American schools, MechanicSchool.com offers prospective students details on the different mechanical courses available. Popular programs researched by prospective mechanics include automotive mechanics, diesel mechanics, marine mechanics and motorcycle mechanics. For each program, MechanicSchool.com explains a typical day at the job, how one would get a career in the field, and how much someone in that field could expect to earn in a year. Valuable skills for each program are also explained.The team at Neutron Interactive understands that some prospective mechanics might be interested in manufacturer training as opposed to a specific program. That's why MechanicSchool.com also offers details on how to pursue manufacturer training. Details on how to become a Porsche, Volkswagen, Toyota, Harley Davidson or Mercedes-Benz mechanic are provided in a step-by-step manner.While working as a mechanic is intellectually and financially rewarding, paying for an education isn't always easy. MechanicSchool.com also offers prospective students the opportunity to apply for a $1,200 mechanic scholarship.The website's "Question and Answer" section provides aspiring mechanics with all the information they'll need, such as how long mechanical school takes, all the programs available in the USA, and a typical hourly wage. MechanicSchool.com's blog is another helpful resource, supplying individuals with relevant content and up-to-date industry news. All of the information and advice supplied on the site is intended to help prospective mechanics choose a school and a program that best fits their needs.ABOUT NEUTRON INTERACTIVENeutron Interactive is an online marketing company based in Salt Lake City, Utah. Since 2005, Neutron Interactive has been leader in online marketing, technology development and higher education. For more information, visit neutroninteractive.com.