The Philadelphia Marriott West hotel is currently offering a special package called A Holiday Treat For You, which includes overnight accommodations, complimentary Internet access, and complimentary self-parking for a mere $129 per night. The deal is only available to guests who book stays through January 2, 2014, so act fast. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreCONSOHOCKEN, PA--(Marketwired - Dec 27, 2013) - This holiday season, explore the exciting city of Philadelphia without breaking the bank at the Philadelphia Marriott West, a premier hotel outside of Philadelphia.The hotel is currently offering a special package called Philadelphia Marriott West Has A Holiday Treat For You, which includes overnight accommodations, complimentary Internet access, and complimentary self-parking for a mere $129 per night. But act fast as the hotel deal in West Philadelphia is only available to guests who book stays through January 2, 2014.Located in West Conshohocken, the hotel is in a quiet suburb on the affluent Main Line corridor just 15 miles from Philadelphia. Guests who book this package can easily explore Philadelphia's great attractions, like the Franklin Institute, Liberty Bell, Philadelphia Zoo, Philadelphia Museum of Art, and Philadelphia City Hall, or dine at any of Philadelphia's great restaurants. Or, visit Revolutionary War site Valley Forge National Park, which is just 8 miles from the hotel. The hotel is also near St. Joseph University in Philadelphia, Villanova University, University of Pennsylvania, and other schools.After an exciting day exploring Philadelphia, guests can unwind with a drink and a classic American meal at Legends Sports Bar & Grill while watching the latest game on 60" flat screen TVs. In addition to the lively restaurant, the Norristown PA hotel also offers a full-service business center, high-speed wireless Internet access, fitness center, indoor pool, and luxurious accommodations.About the Philadelphia Marriott West Located in Pennsylvania's affluent Main Line Corridor, the Philadelphia Marriott West is a welcoming and comfortable hotel just outside of Philadelphia. This AAA Three Diamond property offers an indoor pool, concierge service, a full-service business center, gym, laundry service, valet parking, and high-speed wireless Internet access throughout the rooms and public areas. The spacious and stylish guest rooms feature upscale amenities like plush bedding with 300-thread-count linens, room service, flatscreen plasma TVs with cable and premium movie channels, enhanced high-speed wireless Internet, and stunning views of the nearby Schuylkill River. There are also four concierge levels with upgraded guest rooms that come with access to a private lounge. Guests can watch the latest game while enjoying classic American dishes, microbrews, wine, or cocktails at Legends Sports Bar & Grill, a lively local sports bar. Legends is open for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Fitness-focused guests can stay on track at the hotel's fitness center or by swimming laps in the indoor pool. With 11 meeting rooms -- including an elegant ballroom which can accommodate up to 800 people -- and a total of 10,000 sq. ft. of meeting space, the hotel is also the venue of choice for meetings and events in the Philadelphia area.