Global Human Microbiome Markets (2019-2030), Drugs, Companies, Therapeutics, Diagnostics, Case Studies, Executive Insights, and MoreHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMore...YAHOO_FINANCESearchSign inMailSign in to view your mailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)Global Human Microbiome Markets (2019-2030), Drugs, Companies, Therapeutics, Diagnostics, Case Studies, Executive Insights, and MorePR NewswireJanuary 3, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareDUBLIN, Jan. 3, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- The "The Human Microbiome Market: Focus on Therapeutics (including gut-brain axis targeting drugs), Diagnostics and Fecal Microbiota Therapies (3rd Edition), 2019-2030" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.Research and Markets LogoMoreThis report features an extensive study of the current market landscape, offering an informed opinion on the likely adoption of microbiome-based medical products (including therapeutics, diagnostics and FMTs), over the next decade. The report features an in-depth analysis, highlighting the diverse capabilities of stakeholders engaged in this domain.One of the key objectives of the report was to estimate the existing market size and identify the future opportunity for microbiome therapeutics, diagnostics and FMTs, over the next decade. The research, analyses and insights presented in this report are based on revenue generation trends based on the sales of approved / late stage (estimated) microbiome therapeutics, diagnostic products and FMTs.The report also features the likely distribution of the current and forecasted opportunity within microbiome therapeutics market across:[A] type of therapy (prescription drugs, prebiotics, and probiotics) [B] type of molecule (small molecules and biologics) [C] target indication (acne vulgaris, atopic dermatitis, CDI, Crohn's disease, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, lactose intolerance, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), ulcerative colitis, and 5+ categories) [D] therapeutic area (autoimmune disorders, dental disorders, digestive and gastrointestinal disorders, dermatological disorders, infectious diseases, metabolic disorders, oncology, and others) [E] supply channel (hospital pharmacies, retail pharmacies, and online pharmacies) [F] key geographical regions (North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and rest of the world) [G] leading drug developers [H] leading therapeutic productsIn addition, it also features the likely distribution of the current and forecasted opportunity within microbiome diagnostics market across:[A] target indication (Crohn's disease, colorectal cancer, diabetes, irritable bowel syndrome, lung cancer, NASH, obesity, and ulcerative colitis) [B] therapeutic area (digestive and gastrointestinal disorders, metabolic disorders and oncology) [C] supply channel (hospital pharmacies, retail pharmacies, and online pharmacies) [D] key geographical regions (North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and rest of the world)In addition to other elements, the study includes:A detailed assessment of the current market landscape of microbiome therapeutics, providing information on drug / therapy developer(s) (such as year of establishment, location of headquarters and company size), clinical study sponsor(s) or collaborators, phase of development (clinical, preclinical, and discovery stage) of product candidates, type of molecule (small molecule and biologic), type of therapy (prebiotic, probiotic, and prescription drug), target indication(s), key therapeutic area(s), molecular / biological target (if available), mechanism of action (if available), route of administration, type of drug formulation (tablet, capsule, gel, lotion, cream, ointment, nasal spray and 4+ categories), dosing frequency (reported for clinical candidates only), and information on special drug designations (if any). In addition, the chapter highlights the various technology platforms that are being actively used for the development of microbiome therapeutics. Elaborate profiles of key players (established after 2005) that are engaged in the development of microbiome therapeutics (which are presently in both preclinical and clinical stages of development); each profile features a brief overview of the company, its financial information (if available), microbiome-based product portfolio, information on advanced stage (phase II and above) pipeline candidates (featuring a drug overview, current status of development, clinical trial information, and clinical trial end-point analysis) and an informed future outlook. A discussion on the various types of diagnostic tests, specifically highlighting the importance of next-generation sequencing within this field of research, along with [A] a detailed review of the current market landscape of microbiome diagnostic tests, including the information on the developer(s) (such as year of establishment, location of headquarters and company size), stage of development (commercialized and under development), type of sample used (blood, feces, saliva and vaginal swab), target indication(s), key therapeutic area(s), result turnaround time, and purpose of diagnosis, [B] brief profiles of popular diagnostic developers, and [C] an indicative list of screening and profiling test kits, including information on the developer(s) (such as year of establishment, location of headquarters and company size), type of sample used (blood, feces, saliva and vaginal swab), key therapeutic area(s), and result turnaround time. A review of the historical evolution and other relevant aspects of FMT therapies, including details on the process of donor selection, therapy procedure, route of administration, important clinical guidelines, regulatory guidelines and insurance coverage, along with [A] a detailed assessment of the current market landscape of FMT therapies, providing information on FMT developer(s) (such as year of establishment, location of headquarters and company size), status of development (commercialized, clinical, and preclinical stage), target indication(s), key therapeutic area(s), and route of administration, [B] a geographical clinical trial analysis of ongoing / planned / completed studies of FMTs sponsored by non-industry players, featuring details related to specific FMT therapies and analysis based on relevant parameters, such as the number of registered trials, year of registration, current status, phase of development, study design, type of sponsor(s), target indication(s), key therapeutic area(s), key focus areas, number of patients enrolled and leading non-industry player(s), and [C] information on various stool banks (including year of establishment and location of headquarters), along with brief profiles of the most prominent stool banks located across the globe. A detailed business portfolio analysis based on an attractiveness and competitiveness (AC) framework, highlighting the current market attractiveness and existing competition across the most popular disease indication(s) for which microbiome therapeutics are under investigation. An analysis of the varied microbiome-focused initiatives of big pharma players (out of top 20 established pharmaceutical players), featuring a [A] heat map representation that highlights microbiome therapeutics under development (in partnership with core microbiome product developers), along with information on funding, partnership activity, and diversity of product portfolio (in terms of disease indication(s) being treated and focus therapeutic area(s)), and [B] a spider web representation of the individual competitiveness of the initiatives of big pharma players based on multiple relevant parameters. An analysis of the start-ups / small-sized players (established in the last seven years, with less than 50 employees) engaged in the development of microbiome therapeutics and diagnostics, featuring heat map representation based on parameters, such as number of microbiome therapeutics under development, diversity of product portfolio, funding information (including funding amount, number of investors and evolution of investment activity), partnership activity, disease indication(s) being treated and focus therapeutic area(s), and strength of intellectual property portfolio. An assessment of the most commonly targeted therapeutic indications and details of microbiome-based drugs that are being developed against them, highlighting key epidemiological facts about specific diseases, available methods of diagnosis, and currently available treatment options and their side effects. An analysis of the investments made, including seed financing, venture capital financing, debt financing, grants, capital raised from IPOs and subsequent offerings, at various stages of development in start-ups / small-sized companies (established in last seven years, with less than 50 employees) that are focused on developing microbiome therapeutics and diagnostics. An elaborate discussion on the various steps involved in the development and manufacturing of microbiome therapeutics, along with [A] an indicative list of contract manufacturers, along with details on year of establishment, location of headquarters, company size, scale of operation, facility location and microbiome production capacity, [B] an indicative list of companies with in-house manufacturing facilities for microbiome therapeutics, along with details on year of establishment, location of headquarters, and company size, [C] an indicative list of CROs that currently claim to have the necessary capabilities to offer various research services (such as screening, sequencing, characterization, analytical), along with details on year of establishment, location of headquarters, company size, and service portfolio details, and [D] an insightful Harvey ball analysis of key considerations that need to be taken into account by industry stakeholders while selecting a suitable CMO / CRO partner. An assessment of the emerging role of big data, highlighting efforts focused on the development and implementation of various algorithms / tools to analyze data generated from microbiome research along with [A] an insightful google trends analysis to demonstrate the rising interest of stakeholders in using big data tools to support microbiome research over the past decade, [B] a list of companies offering big data-related services / tools to support microbiome research, and [C] brief profiles of some of the popular companies that are engaged in this field of research. An informative case study on the various other applications of microbiome products, such as agriculture, animal health, plant health, food products, featuring a list of nearly 80 products, including probiotic supplements, cosmetics, and over-the-counter (OTC) products that are being used as dietary supplements.In order to account for the uncertainties associated with the growth of microbiome market and to add robustness to our model, we have provided three market forecast scenarios, namely conservative, base and optimistic scenarios, representing different tracks of the industry's growth.Key Topics Covered 1. PREFACE1.1. Scope of the Report1.2. Research Methodology1.3. Chapter Outlines2. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY3. INTRODUCTION3.1. Chapter Overview3.2. Concept of Microbiota and Microbiome3.3. Overview of Gut Flora3.4. The Microbiome and Disease3.5. Impact of Microbiota on Drug Pharmacokinetics3.6. Impact of Microbiota on Therapeutic Outcomes3.7. Microbiome Therapeutics3.8. The Human Microbiome Project (HMP)3.9. Regulatory Guidelines for Live Biotherapeutic Products (LBPs)3.10. Key Challenges in the Development of Microbiome Therapeutics3.11. Future Perspectives4. MICROBIOME THERAPEUTICS: MARKET LANDSCAPE4.1. Chapter Overview4.2. Microbiome Therapeutics: Clinical Pipeline4.3. Microbiome Therapeutics: Early-Stage Pipeline4.4. Microbiome Therapeutics: List of Drug Developers4.5. Microbiome Therapeutics: List of Discontinued Drugs4.6. Emerging Role of Microbiome in Gut-Brain Axis4.7. Microbiome Therapeutics: List of Technology Platforms5. COMPANY AND DRUG PROFILES5.1. Chapter Overview5.2. 4D Pharma5.3. Armata Pharmaceuticals5.4. Evelo Biosciences5.5. Rebiotix (Acquired by Ferring Pharmaceuticals)5.6. Seres Therapeutics5.7. Vedanta Biosciences6. MICROBIOME DIAGNOSTICS: MARKET LANDSCAPE6.1. Chapter Overview6.2. Overview of Microbiome Diagnostic Tests6.3. Microbiome Diagnostic Tests: Marketed and Under Development Products6.4. Microbiome Diagnostic Tests: List of Diagnostic Developers6.5. Profiles of Prominent Diagnostic Developers6.6. Overview of Microbiome Screening / Profiling Tests7. FECAL MICROBIOTA THERAPY (FMT)7.1. Chapter Overview7.2. Introduction to FMT7.3. Historical Overview7.4. FMT: Procedure and Clinical Relevance7.5. Regulatory Guidelines Related to FMT7.6. Insurance Coverage for FMT7.7. FMT: Competitive Landscape7.8. Clinical Trial Analysis (Non-Industry Sponsored)7.9. Stool Banks8. ATTRACTIVENESS COMPETITIVENESS (AC) MATRIX8.1. Chapter Overview8.2. AC Matrix: An Overview8.3. AC Matrix: Analytical Methodology8.4. AC Matrix: Plotting the Information8.5. AC Matrix: Analyzing the Data8.6. Concluding Remarks9. MICROBIOME RELATED INITIATIVES OF BIG PHARMACEUTICAL PLAYERS9.1. Chapter Overview9.2. Scope and Methodology9.3. Initiatives of Big Pharmaceutical Players9.4. Benchmark Analysis of Big Pharmaceutical Players10. START-UP HEALTH INDEXING10.1. Chapter Overview10.2. Scope and Methodology10.3. Benchmark Analysis of Start-ups11. KEY THERAPEUTIC AREAS11.1. Chapter Overview11.2. Metabolic Disorders11.3. Digestive and Gastrointestinal Disorders11.4. Oncological Indications11.5. Dermatological Disorders11.6. Infectious Diseases12. FUNDING AND INVESTMENT ANALYSIS12.1. Chapter Overview12.2. Types of Funding12.3. Microbiome Therapeutics and Diagnostics: List of Funding and Investments12.4. Concluding Remarks13. CONTRACT SERVICES FOR MICROBIOME THERAPEUTICS13.1. Chapter Overview13.2. Manufacturing Microbiome Therapeutics13.3. Microbiome Therapeutics-related R&D13.4. Key Considerations for Selecting a Suitable CMO / CRO Partner14. BIG DATA AND MICROBIOME THERAPEUTICS14.1. Chapter Overview14.2. Introduction to Big Data14.3. Internet of Things14.4. Growing Interest in Big Data: Google Trends Analysis14.5. Key Application Areas14.6. Big Data in Microbiome Research14.7. Big Data Services for Microbiome Research: List of Companies14.8. Big Data Services for Microbiome Research: Profiles of Key Players15. MICROBIOME THERAPEUTICS: MARKET FORECAST AND OPPORTUNITY ANALYSIS15.1. Chapter Overview15.2. Scope and Limitations15.3. Forecast Methodology15.4. Overall Microbiome Therapeutics Market, 2019-203015.5. Microbiome Therapeutics Market: Distribution by Leading Therapeutic Products, 2019-203016. MICROBIOME DIAGNOSTICS: MARKET FORECAST AND OPPORTUNITY ANALYSIS16.1. Chapter Overview16.2. Scope and Limitations16.3 Forecast Methodology16.4. Overall Microbiome Diagnostics Market, 2019-203016.5. Microbiome Diagnostics Market: Distribution by Target Indications, 2019-203016.6. Microbiome Diagnostics Market: Distribution by Therapeutic Areas, 2019-203016.7. Microbiome Diagnostics Market: Distribution by Supply Channel, 2019-203016.8. Microbiome Diagnostics Market: Distribution by Key Geographical Regions, 2019-203017. FECAL MICROBIOTA THERAPIES: MARKET FORECAST AND OPPORTUNITY ANALYSIS17.1. Chapter Overview17.2. Scope and Limitations17.3. Forecast Methodology17.4. Overall FMT Market, 2019-203017.5. Overall Microbiome Market by Product Offerings, 2019-203018. CASE STUDY: MICROBIOME-BASED PRODUCTS IN OTHER INDUSTRIES18.1. Chapter Overview18.2. List of Microbiome Products in Other Industries18.3. Applications of Microbiome Based Products in Agriculture Industry18.4. Future Prospects19. CONCLUDING REMARKS20. EXECUTIVE INSIGHTS20.1 Chapter Overview20.2. Rebiotix20.3. S-Biomedic20.4. Whole Biome20.5. Siolta Therapeutics20.6. OpenBiome20.7 Assembly Biosciences20.8. List Biological Laboratories20.9. Metabiomics20.10. MicroBiome Therapeutics20.11. Universal Stabilization Technologies20.12. BiomX20.13. Da Volterra20.14. Chung Mei Pharmaceutical20.15. Pacific Northwest National Laboratories21. APPENDIX I: TABULATED DATA22. APPENDIX II: LIST OF COMPANIES AND ORGANIZATIONSStory continues16S Technologies 4D Pharma 5QBD-Biotech Aalborg University Hospital Aarhus University AB-Biotics Abbott Laboratories AbbVie Abraxis BioScience Academic Medical Centre (Amsterdam UMC) ActoBio Therapeutics Adapsyn Bioscience Adare Pharmaceuticals AdvancingBio AEProbio Aetna AgBiome Ajuvis Labsd Alaven Pharmaceutical Aleris-Hamlet Hospital Alimentary Health (Part of PrecisionBiotics Group) Alimentary Pharmabiotic Centre Microbiome Institute, University College Cork (UCC) Allergan Allergy Therapeutics Altis Biosystems Amabiotics Amazon American College of Gastroenterology Ample AmpliPhi Biosciences Amrita Therapeutics Anavex Life Sciences AnimalBiome ANIZOME AOBiome Therapeutics Ardigen Arena Pharmaceuticals Arizona State University Armata Pharmaceuticals Artizan Biosciences ARTPred Ascus Biosciences Asia Microbiota Bank AsiaBiome (formely known as Civet Biosciences) Assaf Harofeh Medical Center Assembly Biosciences APHM (Public Assistance - Marseille Hospitals) APHP (Public Assistance - Paris Hospitals) Astarte Medical Astel Medica AstraZeneca Atlas Biomed Autonomous University of Nuevo Len Aventis Pharma AvidBiotics Axcan Pharma Axial Biotherapeutics Azitra Bactana Bayer Baylor College of Medicine Becton Dickinson Beiersdorf Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Bio Farma Biocartis Biocodex BioControl (Acquired by Merck) BioGaia Biogen Biohit Healthcare BIOHM Health Bio-K Plus International Biom Pharmaceuticals BioMathematica BiomCare Bio-Me Biome Makers Biome360 BiomeBliss Biomecite Diagnostics BiomeSense Biomica (subsidiary of Evogene) Biomillenia BiomX BioRankings Biorasi biose Biotagenics Blis Probiotics Blue Biology Blue Turtle Bio Boehringer Ingelheim BoobyBiome Boston Children's Hospital Boston Medical Center Brigham and Women's Hospital Bristol-Myers Squibb BugSpeak Caelus Health California Institute of Technology (Caltech) Campus Bio-Medico University Canadian Association of Gastroenterology Canadian Institutes of Health Research Capsugel Captozyme Carbiotix CARB-X Careggi University Hospital Case Comprehensive Cancer Center Catholic University of the Sacred Heart Cedars-Sinai Medical Center Center for Microbiome Informatics and Therapeutics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Center of Food and Fermentation Technologies Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CHAIN Biotechnology Charles River Laboratories Children's Hospital Los Angeles Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Children's Mercy Hospital Kansas City Chr. Hansen Chugai Pharmaceutical Chung Mei Pharmaceutical ChunLab Cigna CIPAC Healthcare Clasado BioSciences ClearB Therapeutics Clinical Investigation Center for Innovative Technology Network Clinical Microbiomics ClostraBio Cobra Biologics Commense (a subsidiary of PureTech Health) Concentric Ag Cook MyoSite CoreBiome Cornell University CosmosID Covaris CRB-HUEP Crohn's & Colitis Foundation CRS Bio Cykinso Dairy & Food Culture Technologies Dakota BioTech Danisco Da Volterra Dayanand Medical College & Hospital DayTwo DermBiont Diagnostic Solutions Laboratory Diversigen DNA Genotek Duke University DuPont Eagle Genomics Eat Troo Eatrics Edico Genome (Acquired by Illumina) EirGenix Eli Lilly ELiE Health Solutions Embion Technologies EmblemHealth Emory University Emulate Englewood Health Enterin EnteroBiotix Enterome Bioscience EpiBiome (Acquired by Locus Biosciences) Esse Skincare European Commission European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Evelo Biosciences Evolve BioSystems Evotec EXDEN Exeliom Biosciences (formerly known as Nextbiotix) EzBioCloud Fecal Microbiota Transplantation Workgroup Federal Research and Clinical Center of Physical-Chemical Medicine FermBiotics Ferring Pharmaceuticals Finch Therapeutics First Affiliated Hospital of Chengdu Medical College Flora Medicine Floragraph First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University Fortify Foundation of Hope Fourth Military Medical University Frontier Science & Technology Research Foundation FUJIFILM Diosynth Biotechnologies Fuzhou General Hospital G.D Searle Galderma Galline GALT Genetic Analysis Institute of Molecular Genetics Academy of Sciences Czech Republic GENEWIZ Genome and Company Genova Diagnostics Genten Therapeutics German Federal Ministry of Education and Research Ghent University GI Innovation Ginkgo Bioworks Global Cosmetics GNUbiotics Sciences GoodBelly GoodGut Groken Bioscience GlaxoSmithKline GT Biologics Guangzhou First People's Hospital Glhane Institute of Health Sciences Gusto Global Hadassah Medical Center Hamilton Health Sciences Harvest Capital Strategies Haukeland University Hospital Health Net HealthPartners University of Helsinki Hoechst Marion Roussel Holobiome Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital for Sick Children Hospital Ramn y Cajal Hudson Institute of Medical Research Human Longevity Hunter Holmes McGuire Veterans Administration Medical Center Hvidovre Hospital Hy Laboratories Hyggut IBM Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai iCarbonX Igen Biolab Group ImClone Systems ImmuneBiotech Immunex Immuron Indiana University Indigo Therapeutics Inserm Institut Allergosan Institut national de la recherche agronomique Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine The Institute of Animal Physiology Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences Intralytix Intrexon Intuition Biosciences Invivo Healthcare Ipsat Therapies Ironwood Pharmaceuticals IS-Diagnostics Island Health Isohelix ISOThrive Ixcela Ixion Biotechnology J. Craig Venter Institute Janssen Biotech Jena University Hospital Jinling Hospital John Theurer Cancer Center Johnson & Johnson Joint Authority for Pijt-Hme Social and Health Care Juno Bio Kaleido Biosciences Kallyope Karolinska Institutet Kelsey Research Foundation Keystone Bio King's College London Kingston Health Sciences Centre Kintai Therapeutics KNOMICS MICROBIOTA Kobiolabs La Trobe University Laboratorio Cobas Lactobio Lallemand Health Solutions Lavie Bio Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Lawson Health Research Institute Leadiant Biosciences Leiden University Lesaffre Human Care Levanger Hospital List Biological Laboratories LNC Therapeutics Locus Biosciences London Health Sciences Centre Lonza Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital LUCA Biologics Luina Bio Luxia Scientific M.D. Anderson Cancer Center MaaT Pharma Madison University Maiden Therapeutics Mankind Pharma Manufacturer Vilhelm Pedersen Foundation Marqus de Valdecilla University Hospital Masonic Cancer Center Massachusetts General Hospital Massachusetts Institute of Technology MatriSys Bioscience Mayo Clinic McMaster University MD Anderson Cancer Center Medeva Pharmaceuticals Medical College of Wisconsin Medical University of Graz Medlab Memorial Medical Center Foundation Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Memorial University of Newfoundland MemorialCare Health System Merck Merge Healthcare Metabiomics MetaboGen Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center Mitchell Cancer Institute Microba Microbiome Diagnostic Partners Microbiome Health Research Institute Microbiome Insights Microbiome Research Centre MicroBiome Therapeutics Microbiome Therapeutics Innovation Group MicrobiomeDx Microbiotica Microinventa Microsoft Microviable Therapeutics Millennium Pharmaceuticals Miomics Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Modena University Hospital Molzym Monash University Montefiore Medical Center Moon Biotech Mount Sinai Hospital mybacs MyBiotics MyMicroZoo NAFLD Research Center, University of California San Diego School of Medicine Naked Biome Nantes University Hospital National Cancer Institute (NCI) The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) The National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) National Institute for Health and Medical Research (INSERM) National Institutes of Health (NIH) National Jewish Health National PKU Alliance Nationwide Children's Hospital Nestl Health Science New York University New Zealand Society of Gastroenterology NIZO Nordland Hospital Trust NorthShore University HealthSystem Norway Regional Health Authority Norwegian University of Science and Technology Novartis Novo Nordisk Novogene Novome Biotechnologies Nubiyota Open Patient data Explorative Network Odense University Hospital Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center Omega Biomics One Codex OpenBiome OptiBiotix Oragenics Oralta Orebro University Oregon State University Orexigen Therapeutics Osel OSI Pharmaceuticals Oslo University Hospital OxThera Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) Paragon Bioservices (unit of Catalent Biologics) Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy Vlaamse Parkinson Liga Parkinson's Institute and Clinical Center Peking Union Medical College Hospital Pendulum Therapeutics (formerly known as Whole Biome) Perrigo Persona Biome Pfizer Pharmacia & Upjohn Pharm-Olam Phase Genomics Phi Therapeutics Phylagen Pierre and Marie Curie University Pierre Fabre Pillar Healthcare Postbiotics Plus Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research PrecisionBiotics Presutti Laboratories Prime Discoveries Priority Health Probiotical ProdermIQ ProDigest Prometheus Laboratories PSI Foundation Psoriasis Association Psychiatric Hospital of the University of Basel Public Health England Public Health Ontario Puerta de Hierro University Hospital Qiara Qingdao Institute of Bioenergy and Bioprocess Technology Quadram Institute Quay Pharma Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre Queen's University Quorum Innovations Quotient Sciences Rambam Healthcare Campus Rebiotix (part of Ferring Pharmaceuticals Group) Regence BlueShield Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Replete Biotics Research Foundation - Flanders Research Institute of St Joe's Hamilton Resilient Biotics Resphera Biosciences Rise Therapeutics Ritter Pharmaceuticals Roche RondinX (Acquired by BiomX) Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center Ruprecht Karl University of Heidelberg Rush University Sabinsa Saint-Antoine Hospital Salix Pharmaceuticals Sanofi S-Biomedic Scaled Microbiomics SciBac Scioto Biosciences Seattle Children's Hospital Second Genome Seed Health Santa Maria della Misericordia Hospital Seres Therapeutics SFA Therapeutics Shanghai Children's Medical Center Shanghai General Hospital Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine Shanghai Zhongshan Hospital Sheba Medical Center Shoreline Biome Sicor Siffra Farmaceutici Sinai Health System Siolta Therapeutics Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation SkinBioTherapeutics Snipr Biome Solarea Bio Soroka Medical Center SRZ Properties St. Justine's Hospital Stanford Cancer Institute Stanford University School of Medicine Stony Brook University Sucampo Pharmaceuticals Sugarlogix Sun Genomics Symberix Symbiota Symbiotix Biotherapies Syneos Health Synergy Worldwide Synlogic Synthetic Biologics Synthetic Genomics Taiho Pharmaceutical Takeda Pharmaceutical TargEDys Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center Temple University Teva Pharmaceutical Texas Digestive Diseases Center Texas Children's Hospital The BioCollective The Chinese University of Hong Kong The Danish Rheumatism Association The Flanders Institute for Biotechnology The Jackson Laboratory The Miriam Hospital The Research Council of Norway The Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University The University of Texas Health Science Center The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center The Weston A Price Foundation Thryve Digital Tongji Hospital Toronto Invasive Bacterial Diseases Network Tortuga Biosciences Trayer Biotherapeutics Triphase Pharmaceuticals TULA Skincare uBioDiscovery uBiome UCB Pharma Ume University Universitair Ziekenhuis Leuven University Health Network University Hospital Cologne University Hospital of Limoges University Hospital of North Norway University of Adelaide University of Alberta University of British Columbia University of Calgary University of California University of Chicago University of Chieti University of Florence University of Maryland University of Massachusetts University of Melbourne University of Miami University of Minnesota University of Modena and Reggio Emilia University of New South Wales University of North Carolina University of North Texas University of Oslo University of Pennsylvania University of Pittsburgh University of Portsmouth University of Southern Denmark University of Surrey University of Texas University of Toronto University of Tromso University of Vermont University of Wisconsin University of Zurich US Army Medical Research and Materiel Command US Department of Veterans Affairs VA Office of Research and Development Vaiomer Vancouver General Hospital Varinos Vast Biome Vedanta Biosciences Vertex Pharmaceuticals Viome Virginia Commonwealth University Visbiome ViThera Pharmaceuticals Vitrilife Vivus WACKER (formerly known as Synco Bio) Washington University School of Medicine Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University Wellmicro Western Sydney Local Health District Westmead Institute for Medical Research Winclove Probiotics Wolfson Medical Center Women's College Hospital Xbiome Xycrobe Therapeutics Yakult Honsha Yonsei University Zehna Therapeutics ZMD GroupFor more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/sakzquResearch and Markets also offers Custom Research services providing focused, comprehensive and tailored research.Media Contact:Research and Markets Laura Wood, Senior Manager press@researchandmarkets.com    For E.S.T Office Hours Call +1-917-300-0470 For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call +1-800-526-8630 For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900 U.S. Fax: 646-607-1907 Fax (outside U.S.): +353-1-481-1716CisionMoreView original content:http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/global-human-microbiome-markets-2019-2030-drugs-companies-therapeutics-diagnostics-case-studies-executive-insights-and-more-300980799.htmlSOURCE Research and MarketsReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextCara Therapeutics (CARA) Reports Q4 Loss, Misses Revenue EstimatesZacksCytomX Therapeutics (CTMX) Reports Q4 Loss, Lags Revenue EstimatesZacksFive Prime Therapeutics (FPRX) Reports Q4 Loss, Misses Revenue EstimatesZacksRevance Therapeutics, Inc. Just Reported And Analysts Have Been Cutting Their EstimatesSimply Wall St.CytomX Therapeutics (CTMX) Upgraded to Buy: What Does It Mean for the Stock?ZacksRichard Branson’s Wealth Falls to Earth as Virgin Galactic SputtersBloombergA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoBiocontainment expert on coronavirus: There's no need for average people to panic yetYahoo FinanceAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoKorea Cases Top 2,000; WHO Sees ‘Decisive’ Stage: Virus UpdateBloombergDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchStock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceMost face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo FinanceCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance Video