Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent SustainabilityHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMoreYahooSearchNo matching results for ''Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant resultsSign inMailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent SustainabilityMorningstarJanuary 3, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareen-GB Sashi Reddy is an outstanding manager supported by a solid investment team. Lead manager Sashi Reddy has run this strategy since 2009 and has 14 years of investment experience. He is among the strongest Indian equity managers under our coverage. His knowledge and acumen in assessing the long-term merits of his investments are apparent throughout our meetings. He is supported by comanager David Gait, who brings 22 years of investment experience, and the 12-member Sustainable Funds Group. This is one of the two subgroups within Stewart Investors, which has 13 years of experience on average and considers sustainability issues more explicitly in its process. Pablo Berrutti joined in July 2019 to help the team better engage with companies on sustainability matters. The team has been stable over the years and sports a great investment culture. It has a long-term incentive plan in which at least half of each member's bonus is invested in funds run by the firm over a three-year deferral period.Reddy has also been the lead on the Silver-rated Worldwide Leaders strategy since 2016 and co-manages the Asia Pacific Sustainability and Asia Pacific Leaders strategies with Gait since 2013 and 2016 respectively. While expanding one's remit is par for the course for a capable manager, we are keeping track of how Reddy balances his time and whether it would distract him from this India-focused strategy. Overall, the strategy earns a People rating of Above Average. A concentrated portfolio consisting of quality companies at a sensible valuation. The 30 Nov 2019 portfolio's top position was IT outsourcing company Tech Mahindra at 6.1%. Sashi Reddy explained during our November 2019 meeting that the company has been valued more cheaply than peers due to the greater cyclicality it faces from its telecom exposure and some prior missteps, but that it has a sound balance sheet and generates strong cash flow. He also liked the Mahindra Group's stewardship and the company's ability to grow and diversify its revenue sources, which he believed would be a catalyst for rerating. Meanwhile, he considered Tata Consultancy Services (5.3%) to be a superior company, with strong leadership and economies of scale, but he slightly trimmed the position in June 2019 due to its high valuation.The portfolio maintained its overweighting in the healthcare sector, which stood at 10.8% as of 30 Nov 2019, compared with the MSCI India Index's 3.9%. Reddy added to the diagnostics company Dr Lal PathLabs (5.0%) in mid-2019, which he believes can grow strongly in the next decade thanks to the huge industry tailwind and the potential for market consolidation. He also liked its capital-light model, which facilitates its expansion into different regions. However, he has trimmed Dr Reddy's Labs (3.4%). Although the pharmaceutical company has restructured itself after its quality control issues a few years ago, Reddy expected its growth to slow. A bottom-up, benchmark-agnostic approach that balances between quality and valuation. Stewart Investors' investment process has been consistently applied for more than two decades and yielded strong risk-adjusted returns, earning it a Process rating of Above Average. The team invests in quality companies with sustainable and predictable businesses, focusing on management quality, business franchise, and financial strength. It looks for management teams of integrity, aligned with minority shareholders and capable of executing long-term strategies. The team assesses the development impact of the companies and usually finds ideas in the areas of sustainable goods and services, responsible finance, and required infrastructure. Valuation is derived from metrics based on earnings, cash flows, book value, replacement cost, and physical metrics. This strategy is relatively more valuation-sensitive than some other quality-focused Indian equity strategies under our coverage.This conviction-based approach results in a concentrated portfolio of 30-40 stocks, with a consistent active share of about 80% relative to the MSCI India Index. Portfolio turnover has remained below 30% over time given the team's long-term focus. Compared with the peer group, this strategy has significant exposure to the small- and mid-cap segments, which have long been fertile hunting ground for the team. The portfolio's small/mid-cap exposure averaged 37% over the past three years, compared with its peers' 20%. Given the potential volatility associated with a single-country emerging markets strategy, this is best used as a satellite allocation in a diversified portfolio. Specialty This strategy is one of our favorite options for Indian equity exposure. Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent Sustainability continues to benefit from a strong manager, a solid supporting team. and a time-tested investment process. It earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver for the less-expensive B share class and a Bronze rating for the more expensive A share class.Story continuesSashi Reddy has led this strategy since 2009 and is among the strongest Indian equity managers, in our opinion. He has 14 years of experience, and his investment savvy and knowledge on his portfolio have been apparent during our meetings over the years. The strategy is backed by the 12-member Sustainable Funds Group, with 13 years of experience on average. It has a strong investment culture and interest alignment with fund investors is fostered through the members' own long-term investment in the strategies. On top of his role here, Reddy also leads the Worldwide Leaders strategy and comanages the Asia Pacific Sustainability and Asia Pacific Leaders strategies. These mandates invest in a broader universe that is outside of his expertise of Indian equities, and we are monitoring how he is coping with his various duties.The strategy looks for high-quality companies with outstanding management teams and this has been consistently applied to produce strong long-term results. The team looks closely at a management team's integrity, its interest alignment with minority shareholders, and ability to execute long-term strategies. This strategy is relatively more valuation-sensitive than other quality-focused peers under our coverage. This means that Reddy will not pay extreme valuations for top-quality companies such as Nestle and Unilever, and this has dragged on relative returns over the past three years.Nonetheless, the strategy's impressive long-term track record remains intact. During Reddy's tenure from July 2009 through November 2019, the A share class' 14.72% annualized gain beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian Equity Morningstar Category peers. The strategy has also exhibited better resilience in down markets compared with peers thanks to its quality focus. 1956 Commonwealth Bank of Australia's asset management business is one of the largest, most diverse asset managers in Australia. On 31 Oct 2018, CBA announced the sale of asset management business Colonial First State Global Asset Management, or CFSGAM, to Mitsubishi UFG Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB. CFSGAM includes First State Stewart Asia and Stewart Investors. Therefore, CFSGAM will now be excluded from the previously proposed demerger of CBA's wealth management and mortgage broking businesses. MUTB have indicated an intention to operate CFSGAM on an independent basis which we view favourably. However, we are mindful that this is a disruption for employees, and a degree of uncertainty looms as the full impact of the sale on the CFSGAM business is yet to be outlined. Therefore, until further details are disclosed, we maintain our Parent rating at Neutral.CBA have indicated that Colonial First State, which houses the FirstChoice Investments business will still be included in the demerger. The separation of CFS and CFSGAM is unlikely to materially impact either business as they have operated as separate businesses within CBA for some time, but it is worth noting that CFSGAM does manage assets on behalf of CFS.CBA's announced sale of CFGGAM is a positive, but a degree of uncertainty remains. 2018-04-24T18:00:00 2018-04-24T23:00:00Z Impressive long-term results while near-term performance has been middling. Long-term performance has been stellar since Sashi Reddy took the lead on 1 July 2009. Through 30 Nov 2019, the A share class's 14.72% annualized return beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian equity Morningstar Category peers. In line with the team's focus on capital preservation, standard deviation of returns was also below the index and peers. As such, the A share class' Sharpe ratio of 0.70 trounced the index's and peers' 0.34 and 0.38, respectively, over Reddy's tenure.That said, performance over the past three years has been more modest, partly due to stylistic headwinds in the market, as well as some stock specific issues. 2019 was lackluster, with the A share class losing 1.6% for the year to date through 30 November. It underperformed the index by 3.7 percentage points and ranked in the 83rd percentile among peers. The portfolio's zero weighting in index heavyweight Reliance Industries was a major detractor, although the team continued to view it as a low-quality company at our November 2019 meeting and will continue to steer clear of the name. Other detractors included automaker Mahindra & Mahindra and engineering outsourcing company Cyient. The team misjudged the auto cycle and went in too early for the former and was too exposed to the latter amid cyclical challenges. Nonetheless, Reddy remained confident about the long-run prospects of both names. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000OV6A This strategy is one of our favorite options for Indian equity exposure. Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent Sustainability continues to benefit from a strong manager, a solid supporting team. and a time-tested investment process. It earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver for the less-expensive B share class and a Bronze rating for the more expensive A share class.Sashi Reddy has led this strategy since 2009 and is among the strongest Indian equity managers, in our opinion. He has 14 years of experience, and his investment savvy and knowledge on his portfolio have been apparent during our meetings over the years. The strategy is backed by the 12-member Sustainable Funds Group, with 13 years of experience on average. It has a strong investment culture and interest alignment with fund investors is fostered through the members' own long-term investment in the strategies. On top of his role here, Reddy also leads the Worldwide Leaders strategy and comanages the Asia Pacific Sustainability and Asia Pacific Leaders strategies. These mandates invest in a broader universe that is outside of his expertise of Indian equities, and we are monitoring how he is coping with his various duties.The strategy looks for high-quality companies with outstanding management teams and this has been consistently applied to produce strong long-term results. The team looks closely at a management team's integrity, its interest alignment with minority shareholders, and ability to execute long-term strategies. This strategy is relatively more valuation-sensitive than other quality-focused peers under our coverage. This means that Reddy will not pay extreme valuations for top-quality companies such as Nestle and Unilever, and this has dragged on relative returns over the past three years.Nonetheless, the strategy's impressive long-term track record remains intact. During Reddy's tenure from July 2009 through November 2019, the A share class' 14.72% annualized gain beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian Equity Morningstar Category peers. The strategy has also exhibited better resilience in down markets compared with peers thanks to its quality focus. 1956 Commonwealth Bank of Australia's asset management business is one of the largest, most diverse asset managers in Australia. On 31 Oct 2018, CBA announced the sale of asset management business Colonial First State Global Asset Management, or CFSGAM, to Mitsubishi UFG Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB. CFSGAM includes First State Stewart Asia and Stewart Investors. Therefore, CFSGAM will now be excluded from the previously proposed demerger of CBA's wealth management and mortgage broking businesses. MUTB have indicated an intention to operate CFSGAM on an independent basis which we view favourably. However, we are mindful that this is a disruption for employees, and a degree of uncertainty looms as the full impact of the sale on the CFSGAM business is yet to be outlined. Therefore, until further details are disclosed, we maintain our Parent rating at Neutral.CBA have indicated that Colonial First State, which houses the FirstChoice Investments business will still be included in the demerger. The separation of CFS and CFSGAM is unlikely to materially impact either business as they have operated as separate businesses within CBA for some time, but it is worth noting that CFSGAM does manage assets on behalf of CFS.CBA's announced sale of CFGGAM is a positive, but a degree of uncertainty remains. 2018-04-24T18:00:00 2018-04-24T23:00:00Z Impressive long-term results while near-term performance has been middling. Long-term performance has been stellar since Sashi Reddy took the lead on 1 July 2009. Through 30 Nov 2019, the A share class's 14.72% annualized return beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian equity Morningstar Category peers. In line with the team's focus on capital preservation, standard deviation of returns was also below the index and peers. As such, the A share class' Sharpe ratio of 0.70 trounced the index's and peers' 0.34 and 0.38, respectively, over Reddy's tenure.That said, performance over the past three years has been more modest, partly due to stylistic headwinds in the market, as well as some stock specific issues. 2019 was lackluster, with the A share class losing 1.6% for the year to date through 30 November. It underperformed the index by 3.7 percentage points and ranked in the 83rd percentile among peers. The portfolio's zero weighting in index heavyweight Reliance Industries was a major detractor, although the team continued to view it as a low-quality company at our November 2019 meeting and will continue to steer clear of the name. Other detractors included automaker Mahindra & Mahindra and engineering outsourcing company Cyient. The team misjudged the auto cycle and went in too early for the former and was too exposed to the latter amid cyclical challenges. Nonetheless, Reddy remained confident about the long-run prospects of both names. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's middle quintile. That's not great, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will still be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. F0000004A9 This strategy is one of our favorite options for Indian equity exposure. Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent Sustainability continues to benefit from a strong manager, a solid supporting team. and a time-tested investment process. It earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver for the less-expensive B share class and a Bronze rating for the more expensive A share class.Sashi Reddy has led this strategy since 2009 and is among the strongest Indian equity managers, in our opinion. He has 14 years of experience, and his investment savvy and knowledge on his portfolio have been apparent during our meetings over the years. The strategy is backed by the 12-member Sustainable Funds Group, with 13 years of experience on average. It has a strong investment culture and interest alignment with fund investors is fostered through the members' own long-term investment in the strategies. On top of his role here, Reddy also leads the Worldwide Leaders strategy and comanages the Asia Pacific Sustainability and Asia Pacific Leaders strategies. These mandates invest in a broader universe that is outside of his expertise of Indian equities, and we are monitoring how he is coping with his various duties.The strategy looks for high-quality companies with outstanding management teams and this has been consistently applied to produce strong long-term results. The team looks closely at a management team's integrity, its interest alignment with minority shareholders, and ability to execute long-term strategies. This strategy is relatively more valuation-sensitive than other quality-focused peers under our coverage. This means that Reddy will not pay extreme valuations for top-quality companies such as Nestle and Unilever, and this has dragged on relative returns over the past three years.Nonetheless, the strategy's impressive long-term track record remains intact. During Reddy's tenure from July 2009 through November 2019, the A share class' 14.72% annualized gain beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian Equity Morningstar Category peers. The strategy has also exhibited better resilience in down markets compared with peers thanks to its quality focus. 1956 Commonwealth Bank of Australia's asset management business is one of the largest, most diverse asset managers in Australia. On 31 Oct 2018, CBA announced the sale of asset management business Colonial First State Global Asset Management, or CFSGAM, to Mitsubishi UFG Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB. CFSGAM includes First State Stewart Asia and Stewart Investors. Therefore, CFSGAM will now be excluded from the previously proposed demerger of CBA's wealth management and mortgage broking businesses. MUTB have indicated an intention to operate CFSGAM on an independent basis which we view favourably. However, we are mindful that this is a disruption for employees, and a degree of uncertainty looms as the full impact of the sale on the CFSGAM business is yet to be outlined. Therefore, until further details are disclosed, we maintain our Parent rating at Neutral.CBA have indicated that Colonial First State, which houses the FirstChoice Investments business will still be included in the demerger. The separation of CFS and CFSGAM is unlikely to materially impact either business as they have operated as separate businesses within CBA for some time, but it is worth noting that CFSGAM does manage assets on behalf of CFS.CBA's announced sale of CFGGAM is a positive, but a degree of uncertainty remains. 2018-04-24T18:00:00 2018-04-24T23:00:00Z Impressive long-term results while near-term performance has been middling. Long-term performance has been stellar since Sashi Reddy took the lead on 1 July 2009. Through 30 Nov 2019, the A share class's 14.72% annualized return beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian equity Morningstar Category peers. In line with the team's focus on capital preservation, standard deviation of returns was also below the index and peers. As such, the A share class' Sharpe ratio of 0.70 trounced the index's and peers' 0.34 and 0.38, respectively, over Reddy's tenure.That said, performance over the past three years has been more modest, partly due to stylistic headwinds in the market, as well as some stock specific issues. 2019 was lackluster, with the A share class losing 1.6% for the year to date through 30 November. It underperformed the index by 3.7 percentage points and ranked in the 83rd percentile among peers. The portfolio's zero weighting in index heavyweight Reliance Industries was a major detractor, although the team continued to view it as a low-quality company at our November 2019 meeting and will continue to steer clear of the name. Other detractors included automaker Mahindra & Mahindra and engineering outsourcing company Cyient. The team misjudged the auto cycle and went in too early for the former and was too exposed to the latter amid cyclical challenges. Nonetheless, Reddy remained confident about the long-run prospects of both names. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000OV69 This strategy is one of our favorite options for Indian equity exposure. Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent Sustainability continues to benefit from a strong manager, a solid supporting team. and a time-tested investment process. It earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver for the less-expensive B share class and a Bronze rating for the more expensive A share class.Sashi Reddy has led this strategy since 2009 and is among the strongest Indian equity managers, in our opinion. He has 14 years of experience, and his investment savvy and knowledge on his portfolio have been apparent during our meetings over the years. The strategy is backed by the 12-member Sustainable Funds Group, with 13 years of experience on average. It has a strong investment culture and interest alignment with fund investors is fostered through the members' own long-term investment in the strategies. On top of his role here, Reddy also leads the Worldwide Leaders strategy and comanages the Asia Pacific Sustainability and Asia Pacific Leaders strategies. These mandates invest in a broader universe that is outside of his expertise of Indian equities, and we are monitoring how he is coping with his various duties.The strategy looks for high-quality companies with outstanding management teams and this has been consistently applied to produce strong long-term results. The team looks closely at a management team's integrity, its interest alignment with minority shareholders, and ability to execute long-term strategies. This strategy is relatively more valuation-sensitive than other quality-focused peers under our coverage. This means that Reddy will not pay extreme valuations for top-quality companies such as Nestle and Unilever, and this has dragged on relative returns over the past three years.Nonetheless, the strategy's impressive long-term track record remains intact. During Reddy's tenure from July 2009 through November 2019, the A share class' 14.72% annualized gain beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian Equity Morningstar Category peers. The strategy has also exhibited better resilience in down markets compared with peers thanks to its quality focus. 1956 Commonwealth Bank of Australia's asset management business is one of the largest, most diverse asset managers in Australia. On 31 Oct 2018, CBA announced the sale of asset management business Colonial First State Global Asset Management, or CFSGAM, to Mitsubishi UFG Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB. CFSGAM includes First State Stewart Asia and Stewart Investors. Therefore, CFSGAM will now be excluded from the previously proposed demerger of CBA's wealth management and mortgage broking businesses. MUTB have indicated an intention to operate CFSGAM on an independent basis which we view favourably. However, we are mindful that this is a disruption for employees, and a degree of uncertainty looms as the full impact of the sale on the CFSGAM business is yet to be outlined. Therefore, until further details are disclosed, we maintain our Parent rating at Neutral.CBA have indicated that Colonial First State, which houses the FirstChoice Investments business will still be included in the demerger. The separation of CFS and CFSGAM is unlikely to materially impact either business as they have operated as separate businesses within CBA for some time, but it is worth noting that CFSGAM does manage assets on behalf of CFS.CBA's announced sale of CFGGAM is a positive, but a degree of uncertainty remains. 2018-04-24T18:00:00 2018-04-24T23:00:00Z Impressive long-term results while near-term performance has been middling. Long-term performance has been stellar since Sashi Reddy took the lead on 1 July 2009. Through 30 Nov 2019, the A share class's 14.72% annualized return beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian equity Morningstar Category peers. In line with the team's focus on capital preservation, standard deviation of returns was also below the index and peers. As such, the A share class' Sharpe ratio of 0.70 trounced the index's and peers' 0.34 and 0.38, respectively, over Reddy's tenure.That said, performance over the past three years has been more modest, partly due to stylistic headwinds in the market, as well as some stock specific issues. 2019 was lackluster, with the A share class losing 1.6% for the year to date through 30 November. It underperformed the index by 3.7 percentage points and ranked in the 83rd percentile among peers. The portfolio's zero weighting in index heavyweight Reliance Industries was a major detractor, although the team continued to view it as a low-quality company at our November 2019 meeting and will continue to steer clear of the name. Other detractors included automaker Mahindra & Mahindra and engineering outsourcing company Cyient. The team misjudged the auto cycle and went in too early for the former and was too exposed to the latter amid cyclical challenges. Nonetheless, Reddy remained confident about the long-run prospects of both names. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we still think this share class will be able to overcome its high fees and deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. F0000023WC This strategy is one of our favorite options for Indian equity exposure. Stewart Investors Indian Subcontinent Sustainability continues to benefit from a strong manager, a solid supporting team. and a time-tested investment process. It earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver for the less-expensive B share class and a Bronze rating for the more expensive A share class.Sashi Reddy has led this strategy since 2009 and is among the strongest Indian equity managers, in our opinion. He has 14 years of experience, and his investment savvy and knowledge on his portfolio have been apparent during our meetings over the years. The strategy is backed by the 12-member Sustainable Funds Group, with 13 years of experience on average. It has a strong investment culture and interest alignment with fund investors is fostered through the members' own long-term investment in the strategies. On top of his role here, Reddy also leads the Worldwide Leaders strategy and comanages the Asia Pacific Sustainability and Asia Pacific Leaders strategies. These mandates invest in a broader universe that is outside of his expertise of Indian equities, and we are monitoring how he is coping with his various duties.The strategy looks for high-quality companies with outstanding management teams and this has been consistently applied to produce strong long-term results. The team looks closely at a management team's integrity, its interest alignment with minority shareholders, and ability to execute long-term strategies. This strategy is relatively more valuation-sensitive than other quality-focused peers under our coverage. This means that Reddy will not pay extreme valuations for top-quality companies such as Nestle and Unilever, and this has dragged on relative returns over the past three years.Nonetheless, the strategy's impressive long-term track record remains intact. During Reddy's tenure from July 2009 through November 2019, the A share class' 14.72% annualized gain beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian Equity Morningstar Category peers. The strategy has also exhibited better resilience in down markets compared with peers thanks to its quality focus. 1956 Commonwealth Bank of Australia's asset management business is one of the largest, most diverse asset managers in Australia. On 31 Oct 2018, CBA announced the sale of asset management business Colonial First State Global Asset Management, or CFSGAM, to Mitsubishi UFG Trust and Banking Corporation, or MUTB. CFSGAM includes First State Stewart Asia and Stewart Investors. Therefore, CFSGAM will now be excluded from the previously proposed demerger of CBA's wealth management and mortgage broking businesses. MUTB have indicated an intention to operate CFSGAM on an independent basis which we view favourably. However, we are mindful that this is a disruption for employees, and a degree of uncertainty looms as the full impact of the sale on the CFSGAM business is yet to be outlined. Therefore, until further details are disclosed, we maintain our Parent rating at Neutral.CBA have indicated that Colonial First State, which houses the FirstChoice Investments business will still be included in the demerger. The separation of CFS and CFSGAM is unlikely to materially impact either business as they have operated as separate businesses within CBA for some time, but it is worth noting that CFSGAM does manage assets on behalf of CFS.CBA's announced sale of CFGGAM is a positive, but a degree of uncertainty remains. 2018-04-24T18:00:00 2018-04-24T23:00:00Z Impressive long-term results while near-term performance has been middling. Long-term performance has been stellar since Sashi Reddy took the lead on 1 July 2009. Through 30 Nov 2019, the A share class's 14.72% annualized return beat the MSCI India Index's 8.59% gain and 96% of its Indian equity Morningstar Category peers. In line with the team's focus on capital preservation, standard deviation of returns was also below the index and peers. As such, the A share class' Sharpe ratio of 0.70 trounced the index's and peers' 0.34 and 0.38, respectively, over Reddy's tenure.That said, performance over the past three years has been more modest, partly due to stylistic headwinds in the market, as well as some stock specific issues. 2019 was lackluster, with the A share class losing 1.6% for the year to date through 30 November. It underperformed the index by 3.7 percentage points and ranked in the 83rd percentile among peers. The portfolio's zero weighting in index heavyweight Reliance Industries was a major detractor, although the team continued to view it as a low-quality company at our November 2019 meeting and will continue to steer clear of the name. Other detractors included automaker Mahindra & Mahindra and engineering outsourcing company Cyient. The team misjudged the auto cycle and went in too early for the former and was too exposed to the latter amid cyclical challenges. Nonetheless, Reddy remained confident about the long-run prospects of both names. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000OV6B LiveStewart Investors Indian Subcontinent SustainabilityReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextRichard Branson’s Wealth Falls to Earth as Virgin Galactic SputtersBloombergA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoBiocontainment expert on coronavirus: There's no need for average people to panic yetYahoo FinanceAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoInvestors in Asia Still Betting Markets Will End Higher in 2020BloombergDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchStock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceMost face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo FinanceCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance VideoThyssenkrupp sells elevator unit for $18.7 billion to Advent, Cinven consortiumReutersStock market live updates: Stock futures climb after historic rout; coronavirus fears persistYahoo FinanceSomething 'dangerous' is happening beneath the surface of the market selloffYahoo Finance'Stuck in no man’s land': A working mom details dealing with her sick child's student loan billYahoo FinanceBeyond Meat beats on Q4 earnings, founder says 'we would be crazy not to invest in growth right now'Yahoo Finance