WILTON, CT--(Marketwired - Aug 16, 2013) - Gold Coast Mining Corp. (
OTC PINK :
GDSM ), is pleased to announce that it will hold a Conference Call on September 3, 2012 at 1pm (Eastern Standard Time). The purpose of the call is to update the investment community on the Company's progress and to provide the CEO's vision for growth and diversification. An Investors Presentation will be published and available on the Company's website (www.gdsmholdings.com) the day of the Conference Call. Conference Call details are as follows:Date: September 2, 2013Time: 1 pm. (Eastern Standard Time)Dial In Number: (218) 862-1300Access Code: 673661ABOUT GOLD COAST MININGGold Coast Mining Corp is pursuing a plan to be a growth oriented holding company. The Company intends to aggressively seek acquisitions, initially in the Oil & Gas space, to achieve sustainable profitability. The Company seeks opportunities to broaden its investment focus in other high growth industries with the objective toward acquiring/creating, growing and subsequently "spinning off" divisions to the public markets, strategic investors or private equity firms. Lastly, the Company is focused on enhancing shareholder value and is committed to open communication with the investment community.Follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/GoldCoastMiningSafe Harbor StatementMatters discussed in this press release contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this press release, the words "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "may," "intend," "expect" and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained herein. These forward-looking statements are based largely on the expectations of the Company and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. These include, but are not limited to: the impact of economic, competitive and other factors affecting the Company and its operations, markets, product, and distributor performance.