Ecolab Inc. (ECL), a leading manufacturer of cleaning and sanitation products, rolled out its latest Performance Industrial Laundry Program. This eco-friendly program will be used in industrial laundries in a cost effective manner.
Most of the industrial detergents are made from a Nonylphenol and Nonylphenol Ethoxylates (NPEs) compound, which is harmful to the environment. Thus, many healthcare and hospitality laundries are trying to avoid using such chemicals.
Hence, Ecolab’s Global Textile Care business has introduced this NPE-free chemistry program, which is capable of removing industrial soils efficiently and provide exceptional cleaning. The Performance Industrial Program also helps conserve water and energy, thereby reducing the customer’s overall operational costs. Management claims that the program can save up to 3 million gallons of water annually for an industrial laundry customer.
St. Paul, Minn.-based Ecolab serves the foodservice, food and beverage processing, healthcare and hospitality markets in the U.S. and abroad. The Global Textile Care business is a new operating unit created in 2013 by Ecolab as a part of its restructuring program to focus on global businesses.
We are encouraged by the company’s consistent performance of delivering double-digit earnings growth despite the challenging business environment. Ecolab remains focused on bringing new technologies into the market. Moreover, the company is aggressively pursuing acquisitions to expand into emerging markets for growth.
Ecolab currently has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). Other companies from the basic materials sector such as Balchem Corp. (BCPC), International Paper Company (IP) and Prospect Global Resources, Inc. (PGRX) warrant a look. While Balchem and International Paper are a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) stock, Prospect carries a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy).  Read the Full Research Report on IPRead the Full Research Report on ECL Read the Full Research Report on BCPC Read the Full Research Report on PGRX Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on IP,ECL,BCPC,PGRX