SAN JOSE, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 23, 2013) - Next week in Orlando, Fla., more than 20,000 customers and partners will gather at Cisco's (
NASDAQ :
CSCO ) premier customer event, Cisco Live! to learn, network and share with their colleagues and industry experts. Those who cannot attend the conference in person can attend virtually and view keynotes and other sessions at no cost by registering at Cisco Live 365.Press conferences and customer roundtable discussions will be streamed live and replayed via Ustream for press and analysts. Customers, partners, press and analysts can also register to attend the Cisco Live! virtually to see keynotes and other sessions via Cisco Live 365.Cisco Live! 2013 Press and Analyst Agenda HighlightsMonday, June 24 5:00 p.m. EDT News conference: Cisco Enterprise Networks update
Rob Soderbery, SVP & GM, Enterprise Networks, and Inbar Lasser-Raab, senior director, Enterprise Networks View live on UstreamTuesday, June 25 10:00 a.m. EDT Keynote and welcome address John Chambers, chairman and CEO, Padmasree Warrior, chief technology and strategy officer, and Dave Evans, chief futurist for Cisco will all discuss the new opportunities and amazing things that can happen when you connect the previously unconnected. View live at Cisco Live! 3656:15pm EDT Customer Discussion: Building a Smart+Connected Community
Thad Seymour, senior vice president, Lake Nona Institute and Wim Elfrink, executive vice president Industry Solutions Group and chief globalisation officer for Cisco, discuss value of smart and connected communities and its benefits to healthcare.
This session will be webcast from Lake Nona Medical City, Florida with simulcast from US Ignite Conference at University of Illinois. View live on UstreamWednesday, June 26 8:30 a.m. EDT News conference: The Data Center of the Future: David Yen, senior vice president, Cisco; Giuliano Di Vitantonio, vice president, Cisco; and Soni Jiandani, senior vice president, Insieme Networks View live on Ustream10:00 a.m. EDT Technology keynote: "Unlocking the Value of Innovation" Rob Lloyd, president, Development and Sales, and Edzard Overbeek, senior vice president, Services lay out how Cisco and the power of the intelligent network are helping customers prepare for the future by unlocking the power behind cloud, mobile and data in motion technology trends.
View live at Cisco Live! 3651:00 p.m. EDT Customer Roundtable: Transforming Healthcare of the Future
Barbara Casey, senior director of Healthcare Business Transformation will host a discussion on employing technology of today to transform the healthcare of tomorrow -- ultimately allowing administrators and practitioners to work their way and improve patient care. Customers include:Brian Comp, CTO for Orlando Health John Maass, Manager, Conferencing Technology Systems & Support for Moffitt Cancer Center David Kennington, Director of IT and Information Security for Children's Hospital Central California View live on Ustream2:30 p.m. EDT Customer Roundtable: Technology for a More Connected Government Patrick Finn, senior vice president, U.S. Public Sector Organization will discuss new models using video, collaboration solutions and the cloud in delivering citizen services with fewer resources, limited budgets. Customers include:Matt Benefiel, Court Administrator for Ninth Circuit Court, FL Jorge Pazos, CIO for City of Melrose, MA Chief Warrant Officer 4 Darrin Gibson, Alabama National Guard Rob Fields, CIO for Florida Department of Highway SafetyView live on UstreamFollow @CiscoSystems, @CiscoLive and the #CLUS hashtag for live updates.Interviews To schedule press interviews after the broadcasts, please contact Sami Asiri at sami@text100.com or +1 415-593-8447 or Sandra Livinghouse at slivingh@cisco.com or +1 408-358-4709.To schedule analyst interviews after the broadcasts, please contact Jesse Freund at jefreund@cisco.com or +1 408-853-0099.About Cisco Cisco (
NASDAQ :
CSCO ) is the worldwide leader in IT that helps companies seize the opportunities of tomorrow by proving that amazing things can happen when you connect the previously unconnected. For ongoing news, please go to http://thenetwork.cisco.comCisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. A listing of Cisco's trademarks can be found at www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company.RSS Feed for Cisco: http://newsroom.cisco.com/rss-feeds