OXNARD, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 8, 2013) - CalAmp Corp. (
NASDAQ :
CAMP ), a leading provider of wireless products, services and solutions, has announced a distribution agreement with Steatite Limited, a supplier of mission-critical communications and technology equipment to the transportation, public safety, rail, military and oil and gas markets throughout the United Kingdom."CalAmp's rugged wireless solutions, from narrow band to broadband, using both licensed and unlicensed spectrum as well as cellular 3G and 4G LTE technologies, will provide fixed and mobile connectivity for applications where location, tracking and asset control are paramount. In particular, our customers in military/defense, rail and oil and gas exploration will benefit from the robust, wide-area communications capabilities that the CalAmp equipment provides," said Mike Mountfield, Sales and Marketing Director for the Redditch, Worcestershire-based Steatite.The strategic supply agreement will give Steatite customers access to CalAmp's lineup of advanced radio and multi-carrier cellular solutions, including CalAmp's Vanguard and Viper SC range of IP L3 routers, for command, control and monitoring of remote and mobile assets such as vehicles, well pumps, generators, cargo containers, earth movers and other equipment."What attracted us to Steatite was their long and respected history of supplying vital communications infrastructure equipment to military, commercial, industrial and governmental customers in the United Kingdom," said Alex Crane-Robinson, Senior Director of International Marketing and Sales for CalAmp. "Their proven ability to provide a wide variety of connectivity solutions for mission-critical applications aligns very well with our offerings and strategy to increase our presence in the UK and the broader European market. We are delighted to welcome them as a strategic distribution partner in the region."CalAmp has a proven track record enabling critical communications in support of energy, rail, public safety and automotive markets worldwide. In addition to industry-leading devices, CalAmp can offer the COLT™ cloud-computing SaaS platform that enables rapid development and deployment of large-scale, M2M wireless solutions for numerous enterprise applications.About Steatite Steatite provides industrial and rugged mobile computing platforms and integrated battery solutions, for customers who demand high performance and reliability in mission-critical and harsh operating environments. Products range from custom battery packs, a full range of rugged mobile and fixed industrial computer platforms, custom embedded software solutions, MANET mesh networking radios as well as microwave antennas and sub-systems. With the ability to design and manufacture bespoke units to exact customer requirements, Steatite solutions are built for reliability in extreme conditions. For more information, please visit www.steatite.co.uk.About CalAmp CalAmp Corp. (
NASDAQ :
CAMP ) is a proven leader in providing wireless communications solutions to a broad array of vertical market applications and customers. CalAmp's extensive portfolio of intelligent communications devices, robust and scalable cloud service platform, and targeted software applications streamline otherwise complex machine-to-machine (M2M) deployments. These solutions enable customers to optimize their operations by collecting, monitoring and efficiently reporting business critical data and desired intelligence from high-value remote assets. For more information, please visit www.calamp.com.