HERNDON, VA--(Marketwired - Aug 8, 2013) - The iconic Beetle has earned the coveted Insurance Institute for Highway Safety's (IIHS) TOP SAFETY PICK rating for 2013. The annual rating recognizes those vehicles that perform in the Institute's moderate overlap frontal crash, side impact and rollover, plus evaluations of seat/head restraints for protection against neck injuries in rear impacts. The IIHS only awards TOP SAFETY PICK ratings to vehicles that are fitted with Electronic Stability Control (ESC) and head protection airbags.The Beetle is well-equipped with safety features including a rigid body structure that uses ultra-high-strength, hot-formed steels in the crash-load paths and seamless laser welds, and standard ESC. The Beetle includes Volkswagen's Intelligent Crash Response System that shuts off the fuel pump, unlocks the doors, and switches on the hazard lights if the car is involved in certain types of collision."Volkswagen is passionate about safety," said Mark McNabb, chief operating officer, Volkswagen of America, Inc. "To have IIHS recognize the Volkswagen Beetle as a Top Safety Pick is a great statement for the brand. The fact that we now have nine 2013 Top Safety Picks is a testament to our commitment to continually improve the safety and quality of our vehicles."Volkswagen now has nine 2013 IIHS TOP SAFETY PICKS. The other 2013 Volkswagen models to receive the accolade are: CC 2.0T, Jetta, Jetta SportWagen, Passat, Tiguan, Touareg, and 4-door Golf, and GTI models, while the Volkswagen Passat received the top accolade of "Top Safety Pick +."*Note: the 2013 Top Safety Pick applies to the 2013 model year Beetle built after March 2013 and all 2014 model year Beetles. About Volkswagen of America, Inc. Founded in 1955, Volkswagen of America, Inc., an operating unit of Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (VWoA) is headquartered in Herndon, Virginia. It is a subsidiary of Volkswagen AG, headquartered in Wolfsburg, Germany. VWoA's operations in the United States include research and development, parts and vehicle processing, parts distribution centers, sales, marketing and service offices, financial service centers, and its state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The Volkswagen Group is one of the world's largest producers of passenger cars and Europe's largest automaker. VWoA sells the Beetle, Beetle Convertible, Eos, Golf, Golf R, GTI, Jetta, Jetta SportWagen, Passat, CC, Tiguan, Touareg, and Routan vehicles through approximately 600 independent U.S. dealers.Notes: This press release and images are available at media.vw.com. Follow us @VWNews: #VWTDI, #VWThinkBlue."VW", "Volkswagen", all model names and the Volkswagen logo are registered trademarks of Volkswagen AG.The Intelligent Crash Response System (ICRS) will only activate in an accident where the airbags deploy or safety belt pretensioners activate. Not all accidents cause airbags to deploy or safety belt pretensioners to activate.Airbags are supplemental restraints only and will not deploy under all crash circumstances. Always use safety belts and seat children only in the rear, using restraint systems appropriate for their size and age.