LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Aug 8, 2013) -
British online poker behemoth PKR, has decided to transform one of its main products, in order to 'keep things fresh and interesting' for gamers.The product, Club PKR, has hit the headlines before and back in 2012 this unique section of the PKR website was described as 'a strong arm' for the brand, particularly in its mission to 'shorten the gulf between online and live play'.Starting from August 4th, PKR members will start to see certain tournament tweaks rolled out in stages; the most notable of which so far, is the switch from Club PKR Lotteries to a new weekly $5k Freeroll.The Freeroll will be hosted every Sunday at 16:00pm (GMT) and will be open to everybody with a 'Member level' (the default level) or above. Players with high level memberships will receive bigger starting stacks - in keeping with the original loyalty bonus scheme of Club PKR.In order to reach a high ranking, players simply need to play games on PKR. Each member accrues PKR points throughout their 'career'. Just like before, the more points a player holds, the higher their ranking and the more Club PKR perks they unlock.A spokesperson for PKR commented:"Club PKR has always been an exciting project for our members and our developers. These changes are all about improving on the model we all love already, so our members get even better rewards for their loyalty with us. "It's a nice way for us to build relationships with our long-term players and make sure there is enough innovation on the site to keep them excited. For new members, the levelling system is the ideal measure of progress - it's surprising how quickly some 'fresh fish' can zip up the ranks. "When we've talked about Club PKR in the past, we have put an emphasis on bridging that online / offline gap and nothing's changed here. This new format is just another way for us to recognise and reward our valued members - just like a bricks & mortar casino manager would do with his or her regular players." Everything about PKR, from its trademark 3D graphics to its signature humanised service, has been used to bring that real-life casino vibe to desktops, laptops, smartphones and tablets all around the world. Club PKR remains a 'strong arm' for that endeavour and more changes are seemingly around the corner - as PKR tells members on its announcement page to 'stay tuned'.To find out more about PKR and view the Club PKR tournament schedules, visit www.pkr.com today.ABOUT PKRPKR is a revolutionary new concept in online poker that has changed the way the game is played. Featuring stunning real-time 3D graphics and a uniquely engaging and immersive gaming system, PKR brings an unparalleled and previously unseen level of realism to online poker. Developed by some of the brightest stars in the video games and poker industries, PKR continues to be the most innovative poker room in the world.