In an effort to expand its presence in the healthcare market and the federal health insurance segment, CACI International Inc (CACI) recently acquired IDL Solutions, Inc for an undisclosed amount.
Employing over 100 employees, IDL Solutions is leading provider of information technology solutions, applications, and mission-critical systems support to healthcare IT clients and other civilian agencies. The company primarily facilitates cost-effective business processes and effective patient care with new insights from large volume of health care data.
This acquisition positions CACI International for growth in the Healthcare IT market. The acquisition of IDL Solutions, which is expected to generate $18.5 million in revenues in 2012, is likely to be accretive to CACI earnings from the first year itself. IDL Solutions has major contracts at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Food and Drug Administration, and National Institutes of Health, which further serves as an advantage for CACI international. With the healthcare analytics capabilities of IDL Solutions and its expertise in big data, CACI International aims to deliver improved customer services, besides looking for new growth opportunities in the healthcare IT arena.
Based in Arlington, Virginia, CACI International delivers IT applications and infrastructure to improve communications and secure the integrity of information systems and networks, enhance data collection and analysis, and increase efficiency and mission effectiveness.
CACI International currently has a Zacks #3 Rank, which translates into a short-term Hold rating. We have a long-term Neutral recommendation on the stock. One of its competitors, Man Tech International Corporation (MANT) holds a Zacks #2 Rank, which translates into a short-term Buy rating.  Read the Full Research Report on CACIRead the Full Research Report on MANT Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on CACI,MANT