Given the onslaught of coupons, discount codes, and price match guarantees, you really need to think twice before paying full price for anything these days!Here are some savvy ways to pay less for everything from beer to your next doctor’s visit.Save on Appliances A recent Consumerist article quoted a current Home Depot who said that all of its store associates are able to offer customers a discount to keep them from walking away.  How much? It depends on their level of seniority:*Floor Associates-allowed to discount up to $50 from any item without needing to call a manager. *Assistant Manager-has ability to discount up to $500 without calling the store manager. *Store Manager-can discount up to $1000 without calling the Regional Director.Save on Apparel There’s nothing new about seeing clothing on sale, but beginning in February, H&M will be the first fashion company to take your old clothes - any brand; any condition - and give you a voucher to use in store.Save on Travel For airline discounts, instead of using price comparison sites like kayak.com, go directly to the airline sites themselves.  More and more airlines are offering coupon codes and these lower prices are not reflected until you enter the code.  Also, don’t forget to sign up with yapta.com and they’ll track airfares for you.  Even if your fare drops after you’ve booked, you may be eligible for a refund for the difference - in the form of a credit or voucher from the airline. (Note: I recently saved $100 on my airfare!)Save on Alcohol Brew on this! Just type in your zip code on saveonbrew.com and you’ll find beer deals in your local area for all 50 states.  They have 10,000 beers in their database, including craft beers and gluten-free beers, too. Another way to save on spirits is to shop warehouse retailers, says Kelli Grant, senior consumer reporter, SmartMoney.  “You don’t have to be a member to shop there and you can usually save about 30%.”Glasses Gone are the days you have to pay hundreds for glasses and contacts.  For as low as $6.95, you can buy glasses at eyebuydirect.com.Doctor’s Bills If you’re paying out of pocket for your next medical or dental visit, ask to speak to someone in their billing department about discounts for cash payments.  Many healthcare providers would rather offer discounts - of 10% to 50%! - than have to go through the tedious claims process. To see what other bills are negotiable, click here.What are some surprising discounts you’ve been able to get? We want to hear from you! Connect with me on Twitter @veragibbons and use the hastag, #FinFit.