For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 3, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Nokia Corporation (NOK), Microsoft Corporation (MSFT), AT&T Inc. (T), Apple Inc. (AAPL) and Google Inc. (GOOG).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Wednesday’s Analyst Blog: Nokia Tablet to Hit Market Early This YearNokia Corporation (NOK) is all set to launch its latest Windows-based tablet during the early part of 2013. Launch of the tablet will put Nokia in direct competition with operating system (:OS) partner Microsoft Corporation’s (MSFT) own Windows tablet – ‘Surface.’
The new 10.1 inch tablet – will be based on latest Windows RT platform, which is the tablet version of the Windows8 OS and runs on ARM computer processor. Additionally, the tablet will have a HDMI output, two USB ports and an in built cellular radio.
Notably, the best features of the tablet are the presence of a physical keyboard in addition to the virtual one and a 10-hour battery backup. The second largest US carrier, AT&T Inc. (T) will be the first operator to offer the tablet soon after its launch the US market.
During the earlier part of 2012, Nokia launched its Windows 8-based tablet but it was not very successful as it was quite late to launch the wireless gadget, as by then Apple Inc.’s (AAPL) iPad 3 has established its strong foothold in different markets. Apple’s mini build on that success also performed well and is planning to launch iPad mini 2.
For quite some time now, Nokia has been struggling in the smartphone business due to stiff competition from Apple’s iOS and Google Inc.’s (GOOG) Android platform. Despite teaming up with Microsoft, Nokia hasn’t performed as expected. However, the latest Lumia 920 and Lumia 820 have performed better than its predecessors and are witnessing supply shortages.
According to research firm IDC, tablet market is expected to grow at a 2012-2016 CAGR of 23.3% with Windows-based tablets projected to grow the highest. Furthermore, Apple’s tablet market share slumped to 50.4% in third quarter of 2012 from 65.5% in second quarter of 2012.
We believe if Nokia can price the tablet competitively it could create its own space in the tablet market. However, despite a decline in market share, vending off Apple’s competition in the lucrative North American market would be the biggest challenge for Nokia.
We retain our long-term Neutral recommendation on Nokia Corp. Currently, it holds a short term Zacks #3 Rank (Hold).Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Story continuesVisit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on NOK Read the analyst report on MSFT Read the analyst report on T Read the analyst report on AAPL Read the analyst report on GOOG Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on NOK,MSFT,T,AAPL,GOOG