Global stock markets have been moving in more correlation to the U.S. markets, however, the diversification benefits of overseas investing can not be emphasized enough. Emerging market investing has been written about frequently, but the need for other developed markets exposure is necessary for proper allocation. The iShares MSCI EAFE Index (EFA) has an interesting developed market strategy not to be ignored.“Europe includes some of the largest developed markets outside North America. While nearly 65% of EFA’s portfolio is held in European stocks, which may increase volatility in the near term, a recovery in Europe may offset weakness elsewhere. Japan represents the fund’s second-largest market exposure. Overall, companies based in these regions generate a larger portion of their earnings and revenue from emerging markets than their counterparts in the U.S.,” Alex Bryan wrote for Morningstar.EFA has a high dose of U.S. and Canadian holdings along with mid-cap exposure to Asia, Europe and Australian developed markets. Various companies from the aforementioned regions do derive revenue from emerging markets, so ETF is also an indirect play on emerging economies at the same time, reports Bryan. This indirect exposure helped ETF prosper while recent growth in developed markets slowed. [Using ETFs in Asset Allocation Models]EFA also adds other diversification benefits since it gives investors exposure to commodities. Commodity prices swings affect the profitability of companies in other industries which reduces the funds’ volatility. Furthermore, the currency hedge that EFA provides is subtle, but was evident when the U.S. dollar weakened over the past 10 years. ETF gained an annualized 2.6%, reports Bryan. EFA also yields 3%, and costs 0.34%.[The Warren Buffet ETF Portfolio]Morningstar gives this fund a favorable risk-reward profile for the long term.The health of the economies in the Eurozone, Japan and Australia all have an impact on EFA. The Eurozone will be able to dodge a complete default due to the ECB’s commitment to purchase unlimited debt from troubled countries, while the Japanese economy is looking more attractive due to current valuations in the equity market. Lastly, health of the Australian economy, which is influenced by the commodities cycle, looks to be favorable as China heads into a new phase of growth.[Taking the Euro out of Europe ETFs has Reduced Risk]Other comparable ETFs: Vanguard Europe Pacific ETF (VEA) costs 0.12% iShares Core MSCI EAFE ETF (IEFA) costs 0.14% Schwab International Equity (SCHF) costs 0.09%iShares MSCI EAFE IndexEFA, SCHF, VEA, IEFA, Global ETFsMore Tisha Guerrero contributed to this article. The opinions and forecasts expressed herein are solely those of Tom Lydon, and may not actually come to pass. Information on this site should not be used or construed as an offer to sell, a solicitation of an offer to buy, or a recommendation for any product.