ORBITAL SUCCESSFULLY LAUNCHES NASA`S LADEE SPACECRAFT ABOARD MINOTAUR V ROCKET-- Mission is 24th Consecutive Successful Launch of Minotaur Product Line --(Dulles, VA 7 September 2013) - Orbital Sciences Corporation (ORB), one of the world`s leading space technology companies, announced today that its Minotaur V rocket successfully launched NASA`s Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Environment Explorer (LADEE) satellite.  Originating from Wallops Flight Facility in eastern Virginia late yesterday, the LADEE mission marked the first launch of Orbital`s Minotaur V rocket and the fifth Minotaur vehicle to be launched from the Wallops facility.The first stage of Minotaur V ignited at 11:27 p.m. (EDT) and separated the LADEE spacecraft 23 minutes later into its intended insertion point, successfully completing the rocket`s five-stage sequence.  With the placement of LADEE into its highly elliptical orbit, the spacecraft began its 30-day journey to the Moon.  Upon reaching its nominal orbit approximately 31 miles above the lunar surface, LADEE will collect data on the Moon`s exosphere and lunar dust environment. It will also gather information derived from new laser communications technologies, which will likely prove beneficial for future deep space missions."The launch of NASA`s LADEE spacecraft aboard our new Minotaur V rocket was a tremendous success, building on our exemplary track record with today`s 24th fully successful Minotaur launch," said Mr. Lou Amorosi, Orbital`s Senior Vice President of Orbital`s Small Space Launch Vehicle business.  "This mission further demonstrates the capabilities of our well-established Minotaur rocket family and our commitment to providing reliable access to space."The Minotaur V is a five-stage space launch vehicle designed, built and operated by Orbital for the U.S. Air Force.  It uses three decommissioned Peacekeeper government-supplied booster stages that Orbital combines with commercial motors for the upper two stages to produce a low-cost rocket for launching smaller spacecraft into low-Earth orbit and higher-energy trajectories, such as the trans-lunar flight of the LADEE mission.  Under the Orbital/Suborbital Program (OSP) contract, which is managed by the U.S. Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC), Space Development and Test Directorate (SMC/SD) Launch Systems Division (SMC/SDL) located at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico, Orbital designs, integrates, tests and provides launch services to orbit with the Minotaur I, IV, V and VI rockets, as well as other suborbital capabilities with the Minotaur II and III configurations.  The company has launched a total of 23 Minotaur rockets with a 100% success record dating back to January 2000.Employing a combination of U.S. government-supplied rocket motors and Orbital`s proven commercial launch technologies, the Minotaur family of launchers provides reliable and low-cost access to space for government-sponsored payloads.  The rockets are specifically designed to be capable of launching from all major U.S. spaceports, including government and commercial launch sites in Alaska, California, Virginia and Florida.  Orbital`s use of standardized avionics and subsystems, mature processes and experienced personnel make Minotaur rockets both reliable and cost-effective for U.S. government customers.In addition to the Minotaur V rocket, the product line includes: Minotaur I - The initial member of the Minotaur family, the Minotaur I is a four-stage space launch configuration that can place up to 1,300 lbs. into low-Earth orbit.  It was originally launched in January 2000 and has conducted a total of 10 successful launches to date.
Minotaur II - A three-stage suborbital rocket, the Minotaur II is used as a target vehicle for testing U.S. missile defense systems and related missions.  This configuration has performed eight successful launches to date.
Minotaur III - A three-stage suborbital rocket, Minotaur III can deliver suborbital technology demonstration payloads of up to 6,500 lbs. or serve as a target vehicle for testing U.S. missile defense systems and similar missions.
Minotaur IV - A heavier-lift four-stage space launch vehicle using retired Peacekeeper rocket motors, the Minotaur IV is capable of launching satellites weighing up to 3,800 lbs. into low-Earth orbit.  Five successful launches have been conducted with this configuration.
Minotaur VI - An evolutionary version of the flight-proven Minotaur IV, the Minotaur VI provides a highly-capable and cost-effective launcher for U.S. Government-sponsored spacecraft of up to 7,000 lbs. into low-Earth orbit.  The combination of four government-furnished solid rocket stages, a commercial solid rocket upper stage, and Orbital`s flight-proven systems and processes provide unmatched value and performance.  About OrbitalOrbital develops and manufactures small- and medium-class rockets and space systems for commercial, military and civil government customers. The company`s primary products are satellites and launch vehicles, including low-Earth orbit, geosynchronous-Earth orbit and planetary spacecraft for communications, remote sensing, scientific and defense missions; human-rated space systems for Earth-orbit, lunar and other missions; ground- and air-launched rockets that deliver satellites into orbit; and missile defense systems that are used as interceptor and target vehicles. Orbital also provides satellite subsystems and space-related technical services to government agencies and laboratories. More information about Orbital can be found at http://www.orbital.com.  Follow the company on Twitter @OrbitalSciences.# # #Contact:   Barron Beneski (703) 406-5528Public and Investor RelationsOrbital Sciences Corporationbeneski.barron@orbital.comThis announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: Orbital Sciences Corporation via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1727876