For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL- May 13, 2013– Zacks.com releases the list of companies likely to issue earnings surprises. This week’s list includes Wal-Mart (WMT), Macy’s (M), Nordstrom (JWN), Cisco (CSCO) and Deere & Co. (DE).To see more earnings analysis, visit http://at.zacks.com/?id=3207.Every day, Zacks.com makes 4 stock picks available, free of charge. To see them, go to http://at.zacks.com/?id=3567.Focus Shifts to Retail EarningsThe Q1 earnings season is over for most of the major sectors, with the Retail sector as the only one that has a significant number of reports still awaited.As such, Retail has a heavy presence in this week’s earnings reports, including industry heavyweights like Wal-Mart (WMT), Macy’s (M) and Nordstrom (JWN). But we do have couple of bellwether operators coming out with results this week from other sectors, like Cisco (CSCO) and Deere & Co. (DE). In total, we will get Q1 earnings reports from 127 companies this week, including 11 S&P 500 members.Total Retail thus far are up +11.2% from the period last year, on 2.6% higher revenues. Combining the Retail sector earnings for the 25 companies that have come out with the 22 still to come, the sector’s total earnings in Q1 should be up +3.6%. This compares to earnings growth rates of +8.1% and +6.1% in 2012 Q4 and Q3, respectively. April same-store sales data for the sector has generally been on the soft side, with industry players citing colder temperatures in April as a reason for light traffic. But it could very well be that the payroll tax changes in January are finally starting to have an effectWe continue to grade the Q1 earnings season as between ‘average’ and ‘below average’ – it’s definitely neither ‘good’ nor ‘bad,’ not materially different from what we have been seeing over the last few earnings seasons. That said, the overall level of ‘total’ quarterly earnings is at a record level.
The Q1 Earnings ScorecardThe earnings season has come to an end for 9 of the 16 sectors and except for Retail, the other sectors are close to or more than 90% done as well. A couple of things stand out in the Q1 results: the pronounced negative revenue surprises and the weakness in the Technology sector.The Technology sector’s growth rates and ‘beat ratios’ are weaker than the same for the S&P 500 as well as what the group reported in 2012 Q4. With 88.5% of the sector’s total market capitalization already out with Q1 results, total earnings for the sector are down -4.4%, with 63.2% of the sector companies beating earnings expectations (vs. the S&P 500 average of 65.3%). The revenue side for the sector isn’t that bad (up +5.7%), which goes on to spotlight the sector’s margin problems.The composite growth rate for Q1, where we combine the results of the 453 companies that have come out with results with the 47 still to come, is for a rise of +2.4% in total earnings on -0.8% lower revenues. In terms of dollar earnings levels, composite earnings in Q1 total $251.6 billion, the highest quarterly total since the current earnings cycle started back in 2009 (is that why the market is at a new all-time high as well?)Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of the industries and the stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=4988.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Len Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=3568.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearchZacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Contact: Sheraz Mian Company: Zacks.com Phone: 312-265-9211 Email: pr@zacks.comVisit: www.Zacks.com Read the analyst report on WMT Read the analyst report on M Read the analyst report on JWN Read the analyst report on CSCO Read the analyst report on DE Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on WMT,M,JWN,CSCO,DE