cory monteith lea micheleMoreMichael Buckner / Getty ImagesCory Monteith and girlfriend and "Glee" co-star Lea Michele in June."Glee" star Cory Monteith died Saturday at the age of 31 in a Vancouver hotel room after  voluntarily checking himself into a  rehab facility  for substance addiction in March."Glee" executive producers released a joint statement saying: “We are deeply saddened by this tragic news. Cory was an exceptional talent and an even more exceptional person. He was a true joy to work with and we will all miss him tremendously. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones."Meanwhile, Hollywood was hit hard with the news of the young actor's passing.While Monteith's "Glee" co-star and real life girlfriend, Lea Michele, released a statement through her rep saying " We ask that everyone kindly respect Lea’s privacy during this devastating time,”  tons of celebrities took to Twitter to express their heartfelt condolences.Monteith and Taylor Swift reportedly dated briefly before the actor started his relationship with Lea Michele.Speechless. And for the worst reason.— Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13) July 14, 2013Cory Monteith, may your spirit be at peace, and may you fly with the angels... Heartbreaking, my prayers are with all of his loved ones!— Rihanna (@rihanna) July 14, 2013Rest in peace Cory. My heart goes out to his family and loved ones. Our prayers are with you.— Katy Perry (@katyperry) July 14, 2013Just heard about the death of Cory Monteith. So sad. Prayers 4 his family. Praying 4 Lea too! Words cant describe what they must be feeling— Kim Kardashian (@KimKardashian) July 14, 2013Shocked and saddened by the tragic death of Cory Monteith. All my love to his family, friends & girlfriend. #TooSoon— oliviamunn (@oliviamunn) July 14, 2013Beautiful man! Why did you leave us so soon? Rest with the angels, Cory Monteith.— Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) July 14, 2013This is such sad news about @CoryMonteith - what an absolutely tragic loss of a very talented young man.— zooey deschanel (@ZooeyDeschanel) July 14, 2013My thought love & prayers are going out to the friends & family of Cory Monteith my he rest in peace!— Kelly Osbourne (@KellyOsbourne) July 14, 2013So heartbreaking to hear about Cory Monteith...my deepest condolences to his friends and family.— Ellen Page (@EllenPage) July 14, 2013I'm gutted. Shocked and saddened to hear the news, my heart goes out to Cory's family and friends. Lets respect their space as they grieve.— Nina Dobrev (@ninadobrev) July 14, 2013So sad to hear the news about Cory Monteith. Praying for his family and friends.— Nick Jonas (@nickjonas) July 14, 2013Way too soon. A very nice & good guy. RT @joshgad: RIP Cory Monteith. Gone way too soon.— Joel McHale (@joelmchale) July 14, 2013#CoryMonteith no words. Prayers. Thoughts w his family. This is terrible. Can't speak.— Kaley Cuoco (@KaleyCuoco) July 14, 2013RIP Cory Montieth... Such a nice guy, very down to earth. Incredibly sad.... #TooYoungToDie— Mario Lopez (@MarioLopezExtra) July 14, 2013I just heard about Cory Monteith.. Rest in peace, everyone close to him and affected by this loss you're in my prayers.— Chloë Grace Moretz (@ChloeGMoretz) July 14, 2013I saw him a few weeks ago in NY, looking so happy. heartbreaking... #corymonteith RT @aurosan: No no no no no no no: http://t.co/zQZasD3N37— Sophia Bush (@SophiaBush) July 14, 2013Many of ABC's "Modern Family" cast also sent their condolences.RIP Cory Monteith. My thoughts and prayers are with you and your loved ones.— Eric Stonestreet (@ericstonestreet) July 14, 2013I am so sad to hear about Cory Monteith. He was a lovely person with a ton of talent. My heart goes out to his family and friends. RIP Cory.— Jesse Tyler Ferguson (@jessetyler) July 14, 2013Can't believe the news about Cory Monteith! He was a great guy & I was lucky to call him a friend. My prayers are with his friends & family!Story continues— Rico Rodriguez (@StarringRico) July 14, 2013Still saddened and shocked by the passing of Cory Monteith. My thoughts are with his family and friends. #GoneTooSoon— Sarah Hyland (@Sarah_Hyland) July 14, 2013Monteith's "Glee" co-stars also took to Twitter to express their heartbreak along with those who appeared on the show:We are deeply saddened by this tragic news. Cory was an exceptional talent and an even more exceptional person.— GLEE (@GLEEonFOX) July 14, 2013He was a true joy to work with and we will all miss him tremendously. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones.— GLEE (@GLEEonFOX) July 14, 2013The guy I shot my first acting scene with. The nicest guy I've met. Can't believe it.— Damian Mc Ginty (@damianmcginty) July 14, 2013At this time, please send nothing but love and light. This tragic news still doesn't seem real to me. I love you Cory.— Harry Shum Jr (@iharryshum) July 14, 2013Cory was always so nice to me. I have so many good memories. pic.twitter.com/XYw4S8gMDH— Lauren Potter (@TheLaurenPotter) July 14, 2013What I will remember about Cory Monteith is that he was talented, funny and absolutely kindhearted. We lost a gentleman. RIP— Cheyenne Jackson (@cheyennejackson) July 14, 2013RIP CoryMontieth. You will be loved. Always.— Kristin Chenoweth (@KChenoweth) July 14, 2013I will always cherish you in my heart. Thank you for so many wonderful days. I love you CM ... pic.twitter.com/HW5me8dmLo— Adam Shankman (@adammshankman) July 14, 2013Dot-Marie Jones played Monteith's football coach on "Glee":I HAVE NO WORDS! MY HEART IS BROKEN CORY WAS NOT ONLY A HELL OF A FRIEND HE WAS ONE AMAZING MEN THAT I WILL HOLD CLOSE TO MY HEART FOREVER— Dot-Marie Jones (@dotmariejones) July 14, 2013I AM BLESSED TO HAVE WORKED WITH HIM AND LOVE HIM SO MUCH! MY HEART IS WITH HID FAMILY AND OUR WHOLE GLEE FAMILY! I LOVE YOU ALL!— Dot-Marie Jones (@dotmariejones) July 14, 2013Vocal producer and recording engineer on "Glee," Alex Anders:Heartbroken by the loss of my friend @CoryMonteith Praying for his family and loved ones. Such a good hearted man that will be sorely missed— Alex Anders (@alxanders) July 14, 2013"Glee" co-star Mark Salling since deleted a Tweet "no" in response to an article claiming Monteith died of a drug overdose.His girlfriend and co-star, actress Lea Michele hasn't made a statement, but Hollywood Life reports she is "absolutely hysterical and completely inconsolable."More From Business Insider 'Glee' Star Cory Monteith Found Dead In Hotel At 31Model Adrianne Curry Geeks Out In Racy Costumes For Comic-ConJustin Bieber Called Bill Clinton To Apologize After Cursing Him Out On-Tape