steve jobsMoreREUTERS/Robert GalbraithLate Apple CEO Steve JobsWe were speaking to a web developer the other day who was complaining about how hard it is to reach the top executives at certain companies. The developer, Ankit Aggarwal , was having trouble with a hot young company that helps people book hotel rooms (more on that soon). His issue was worth thousands of dollars to him and the company cut him off, he said.  It stopped answering his emails, he said, and he couldn't get to an executive at all."I understand that if I bought an iPad and had a problem, Steve Jobs wouldn't come to my home to fix it. But [do top execs] really have to be so hard to reach? I've personally emailed Steve Jobs and literally and he was flawless. His office would reply in a matter of hours and sometimes he would reply himself."In fact, Aggarwal has an email from Steve Jobs prove it. (Notice the former CEO of Apple issued one of his famously terse replies.)After this email exchange, Aggarwal got the chance to meet Jobs in person in 2008 too, when Jobs unveiled the MacBook Air, he told us.From: Steve Jobs <sjobs@apple.com>Date: Thursday, August 9, 2007Subject: iMac 24" FeedbackTo: Ankit AggarwalHave you tried it?Steve On Aug 7, 2007, at 6:38 PM, Ankit Aggarwal wrote: Hi,We are your business customer and so far since transition in 2002 wasbest move ever we made with your OS X. But now as we have over 100'sof Apples shining in our studio and keeping dirty windows away ;) Weare passionate and very excited about all Apple products best eg.being in Canada I got my iPhone from US and using in Long Distance,thats the level of craziness for Apple Products :)But I would like to share one of my biggest concern, with todayslaunch of new iMac, amazingly beautiful and will pick the moment itson shelf here in Toronto. but the glossy screen for us creative guysis major drawback as we see ourselves more rather than our FCS2 orAdobe apps content and too much of reflection like my home studio onwaterfront in a luxury glass condo and day light is just gonna be ontop of it. I seriously recommend Apple to have the MATTE Screen option for thisas thats what we love in our apples most after the OS and everythingelse.And I am very much interested in discussing this further with Appleexecs and share the feedback for the reason of not having a Mattescreen. And if apple has choosing to go with GLOSS there has to be areason for it. It maybe a good option for home users, but definatelynot for the creative pros where mac has its majority.I hope you understand my concerns about the issues here. I can bereached at 647 223 9470 or 647 869 2345Alternatively email mailme@ankitaggarwal.com or ankit@enetstudioz.comThank you so much,Ankit AggarwalCEO FounderEnetStudioz, Inc.More From Business Insider Chairman Eric Schmidt: Google's Relationship With Apple Has ImprovedSources: Steve Ballmer's Reorg Takes 'A Big Risk' With Microsoft's Corporate CultureA Valley Bigwig Explains Why He Doesn't Think Marissa Mayer's Tumblr Acquisition Was Wise