You know by now that IBD is chock full of charts. It has to be, as much of investing requires visual information.It's not enough to know whether a stock is up or down yesterday or today. You need to see if it is above or below the 10-week moving average, or where the support and resistance are. Nothing but a chart will serve these purposes.As you study the charts in IBD (as well you should), you'll notice different sorts: small charts that fit many to a page; large charts that take up a big chunk of space. Daily charts and weekly charts. Each is designed to show you a particular perspective.Consider some of the key chart presentations you'll find in IBD: • IBD 50, Your Weekly Review. The former appears Monday and Wednesday, the latter Friday. Each weekly minichart features a blurb beneath it, describing the stock's technical status.Don't let the minisize fool you. These charts are crammed with useful info. Look for the 10-week moving average and volume. These facts give clues on support and resistance.Look, too, for the stock's most recent Accumulation-Distribution Rating and other key proprietary ratings.Other info includes a description of the company's business, share float, Composite Rating, EPS Rating, Relative Price Strength Rating and return on investment. Why? So you can confirm it meets the CAN SLIM criteria. Combined, you'll have a brief but salient look at the market's leading stocks.• General Market Indicators. It appears daily on the What's The Market Trend? page (today on B2). Now, these are beautiful charts. There are four big charts, three for each of the major stock indexes and one for the IBD Mutual Fund Index.Here, IBD wants to provide you with detail. After all, we're answering a crucial question: Are we in an uptrend or correctionSo these charts are daily. The indexes are marked with the distribution days, as well as market follow-through days and the onset of market corrections.The Nasdaq and S&P 500 charts feature the 200-day moving average. Note, too, the all-important volume bars at the bottom of each index chart.And keep a close watch on the advance-decline line, which appears on the NYSE Composite chart.