Wyndham Worldwide Corporation’s (WYN) lodging loyalty program Wyndham Rewards has collaborated with Points International Ltd.’s (PCOM) operational arm Points.com. By virtue of this program, the Wyndham Rewards members can redeem rewards points through www.wyndhamrewards.com.Wyndham Rewards is Wyndham Hotel Group’s guest loyalty program. As for Points.com, it is a provider of reward currency management and is engaged in supporting world's leading loyalty programs. It assists loyalty members to easily manage their reward points.With this union, Wyndham’s loyalty members can now easily purchase and redeem reward points as well as gift it through various reward options including gift certificates, retail products, airline travel and free nights at its hotels. Moreover, Points.com will also help the company’s customers to add extra Wyndham Rewards points in their accounts.Wyndham Rewards boasts more than 7 million clients who can redeem points in nearly 7,000 hotels across 50 countries under this lodging loyalty program.Last year, Wyndham Rewards debuted in more than 20 countries such as India, Australia, Mexico and entire Middle East. For improving the entire process of the program, the company has also collaborated with several airlines such as Saudi Arabian Airlines, Turkish Airlines and Jet Airways in India. In addition, Wyndham Rewards also unveiled a rewards catalog, which is available worldwide.Separately, Wyndham Worldwide’s operational unit Wyndham Vacation Rentals recently entered into a renewal contract with the Inn at Aspen in Colorado. Per the latest contract, Wyndham Vacation Rentals will continue offering its various services including onsite vacation rental management and operational management to Inn at Aspen until 2022.These proactive advances are expected to be advantageous for the company going forward. However, competition in the industry is increasing and each of Wyndham's hotel brands are facing tough competition from major hotel chains such as Marriott International Inc. (MAR) and Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT).We currently have a long-term ‘Neutral’ recommendation for Wyndham. The stock carries a short-term Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).Read the Full Research Report on HOTRead the Full Research Report on WYN Read the Full Research Report on MAR Read the Full Research Report on PCOM Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on HOT,WYN,MAR,PCOM