For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 10, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Bank of America Corporation (BAC), Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC), Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN), Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM) and Morgan Stanley (MS).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Wednesday’s Analyst Blog: BofA to Continue Selling MSRs Bank of America Corporation (BAC) is again considering the sale of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs). This time, MSRs worth more than $100 billion are up for sale. BofA is taking is step to scale down its non-core operations and further strengthen the balance sheet.
Additionally, given the new capital regulations, servicing of loans is becoming a costly affair for the banks. BofA’s mortgage servicing expenses has shot up tremendously over the last few quarters. In the third quarter of 2012, it stood at $3.4 million as the company had to hire employees to work with those customers who are late in loan repayments.
At the same time, specialized mortgage-servicing companies, such as Walter Investment Management Corp. (WAC), Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) and Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM), are capitalizing on such sales and building their businesses. Over the last couple of years, these companies have been purchasing MSRs from major banks, including BofA and Morgan Stanley (MS), and enhancing their organic growth prospect.
Earlier in the week, two definitive agreements have been signed by BofA with Walter Investment and Nationstar related to the sale of MSRs on some residential mortgage loans. The company stated that MSRs worth $215 billion were sold to Nationstar for $1.3 billion, while Walter Investment is purchasing MSRs on $93 billion worth of mortgages for $519 million. Also, in June 2012, the company announced a deal to sell $10.4 billion worth of MSRs to Nationstar Mortgage Holdings’ wholly-owned subsidiary – Nationstar Mortgage LLC.
Currently, BofA retains a Zacks Rank #3, which translates into a short-term Hold rating. We believe that BofA’s plan to vend off MSRs will be positive for the company and would enable it to act towards its goal of focusing on core and profitable operations. This would enhance investors’ confidence in the stock, and hence there is a chance for upward estimate revisions. This in turn, could also lead to an improvement in its Zacks Rank. Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Story continuesFollow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on BAC Read the analyst report on WAC Read the analyst report on OCN Read the analyst report on NSM Read the analyst report on MS Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on BAC,WAC,OCN,NSM,MS