Despite growing classroom violence, the Obama administration is strongly advising schools to relax classroom discipline, arguing "zero tolerance" policies discriminate vs. minority students.Attorney General Eric Holder and Education Secretary Arne Duncan Wednesday issued "recommendations" urging schools to find ways to avoid suspending or expelling students who act out. They also suggested administrators think twice about involving police in campus altercations.The two Cabinet members argued that suspensions deny minority students time in the classroom, causing them to learn less, drop out of school and end up in prison. They say "harsh" disciplinary codes are feeding a "school-to-prison pipeline.Critics fear the policy will backfire by increasing classroom disruptions, making it harder for minorities to learn. Given increasing student threats against teachers in urban schools, they say it could also make it more difficult for districts to retain good educators who are dedicated to closing the academic achievement gap."Secretary Duncan focuses only upon the fact that, as a group, African-American students are suspended and expelled more often than other students," U.S. Commission on Civil Rights member Gail Heriot told IBD. "By failing to consider the other side of the coin — that African-American students may be disproportionately victimized by disorderly classrooms — this policy could easily end up doing more harm than good to the very group he is attempting to help.Schools TargetedThe danger, she and others say, is that schools will sacrifice safety to get their numbers right with the government. That sounds a lot like quotas, which are illegal.The administration has sent lengthy letters to schools formally outlining the new federal policy. While nonbinding, the guidelines come with a veiled warning. If ignored, schools could face prosecution or denial of federal funding, or both.The Justice Department already has sued school districts in Florida, South Carolina and Mississippi for implementing allegedly racist disciplinary policies.The Education Department is actively investigating more than 20 schools and districts, including Seattle Public Schools, for the same thing. Agency investigators are following up on more than 1,250 complaints filed by minority students and parents, and civil rights groups.Oakland Slashes SuspensionsAfter the department investigated it for discrimination, the Oakland Unified School District in 2012 agreed to reduce suspensions and expulsions to eliminate "disproportionality" in suspensions for blacks. Already 19 schools in the district have cut suspensions by at least 20% for African-American boys.More than a dozen other U.S. cities are voluntarily limiting suspensions. They include Baltimore; Denver; Chicago; Philadelphia; Portland, Ore.; St. Paul, Minn.; Tucson, Ariz.; and Winston-Salem, N.C. Denver has ended mandatory suspensions and expulsions for all offenses except carrying a firearm, earning it praise from the administration as a national model.Every school district will soon come under intense pressure to achieve racial balance in discipline. Last month, the Education Department proposed requiring all 17,000 public school districts report data on out-of-school suspensions and expulsions by race. Schools with racial "disparities" in discipline could face prosecution or lose out on federal grants.Administration officials cite recent statistics that black students are more than three times as likely to be suspended or expelled as their white peers. They blame the "alarmingly large" gap on discrimination. They maintain school officials favor whites in their administration of discipline and are coming down too hard on blacks.Holder in a speech Wednesday in Baltimore claimed black students are suspended for minor infractions, sucj as "laughing in class.But federal data show most suspensions of black boys are for causing, attempting or threatening injury.Baltimore City Public Schools, for example, reported almost 4,000 student assaults on faculty and staff from 2008 to 2012. Classroom violence doubled in the last two years.A recent survey of 3,000 K-12 teachers by the American Psychological Association found that 80% said they were victimized at school at least once in the current or prior school year.Story continuesViolence is still a problem in Oakland schools after officials substituted counseling for suspensions.While black students are more likely to be suspended than whites, administration officials overlook Education Department data showing white boys are more than two times as likely to be suspended as Asian boys.Behavior Not ConsideredIn comparing data for blacks and whites, moreover, the administration has failed to isolate variables that would explain disparities in discipline. For instance, it does not control for repeat offenders.On average, federal crime data show young black men commit a disproportionate share of offenses in and out of schools."Racial disparities in discipline do not prove discrimination because there may be disparities in behavior," noted John R. Martin, a former U.S. Commission on Civil Rights analyst.The administration argues that, under a civil rights theory known as "disparate impact," it must only show statistical disparities to allege a policy is discriminatory.It does not matter if disciplinary codes are evenly applied to all races, or if policies are race-neutral and completely color-blind. It means nothing if administrators have zero intent to discriminate.Under that definition, critics warn that virtually every school district in America could be made to look guilty of racism."The letter (sent to schools) uses both the traditional 'disparate treatment' (i.e. actual discrimination) and the more controversial 'disparate impact' theory. I believe using the latter theory is a serious misreading of the statute," Heriot said, referring to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.