A stronger labor market gave Federal Reserve policymakers the confidence to begin winding down their asset purchases, December meeting minutes released Wednesday showed. But the taper's pace remained open-ended as officials wrestled with how to identify recovery milestones — and to avoid spooking financial markets.The central bank announced Dec. 18 that it would reduce monthly bond buys by $10 billion to $75 billion starting in January, citing "meaningful" jobs market progress, including unemployment falling to 7%.While the Fed cautioned it could slow or hasten its taper in response to economic data, most analysts expect it to proceed consistently, with bond buys ending around the end of the summer. Policymakers stressed that official interest rates would likely remain exceptionally low for some time after that, especially if inflation remains below its 2% target. The consumer price index rose just 1.2% in November vs. a year earlier.Is 6.5% Rate Relevant?The Fed has also laid out a 6.5% unemployment rate as a threshold — but not a trigger — for rate hikes. Policymakers struggled to decide whether a 6.5% rate is meaningful, given historically low labor force participation.Those varying targets may make the Fed's job more complicated as 2014 unfolds, especially if they diverge."It's a very interesting question," said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics and a former economist at the New York Fed. If job and GDP growth pick up, Ryding said, the Fed might not be able to stick to its guidance."Is the Fed telling us what they think about future policy, or are they doing it in order to have an influence on market rates today to get to that point?Minutes from the December meeting reference the Fed's concern about financial market responses. "Some (members) worried that, if the Committee began to reduce asset purchases, market expectations might shift, and they wanted to reinforce the forward guidance to mitigate the risks of an undesired tightening of financial conditions that could have adverse effects on the economy," the minutes read.So far markets have reacted well. The major averages were mixed Wednesday, but they rallied after the Dec. 18 taper news to record or long-time highs. The 10-year Treasury yield is holding near 3%.Job Trends EncouragingCommittee members are likely already discussing the question of forward guidance on interest rates, said Tim Duy, a University of Oregon professor and former Treasury official. As long as inflation remains low, it gives the Fed cover for keeping policy accommodative. But things will become more uncomfortable if unemployment ticks down and inflation remains tepid, Duy said."Is that a time where you start raising rates to get ahead of the curve, or do you keep rates low to give a chance for labor force participation to rise?Private payrolls rose a better-than-expected 238,200 in December, according to figures released by ADP Wednesday. The Labor Department releases its monthly jobs report on Friday.If unemployment hits 6.5% in the not-too-distant future, Fed Gov. Jeremy Stein and other hawks may voice concerns about financial market bubbles and the Fed's price stability mandate, Duy suggested.Policymakers Change TooThe Fed is shifting policy just as its membership is changing. Vice Chairwoman Janet Yellen will replace Ben Bernanke as Fed chief later this month. That suggests policy continuity. But other voting members are also rotating off. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher and Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser are seen as much more hawkish, while Minneapolis Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota is considered extremely dovish."You probably end up with the potential for more dissent," Ryding said. "But they're objecting rather than shaping policy.Duy agreed. "The center-dovish core remains," he said.