Social media is a great way to stay informed about the world around you, and the realm of personal finance is no different.The best social networking site for breaking news and updates is Twitter, where you can amass followers and peek into the insights of journalists, celebrities and financial advisers alike. Here are a few bloggers, authors, academics, and all-around money experts that are worth a follow:@ManishaThakor Manisha Thakor is the Founder and CEO of MoneyZen Wealth Management, “an advisory firm dedicated to your financial well-being,” according to her bio, and as the author of two personal finance books and a regular contributor to several prominent blogs (Huffington Post and ForbesWoman, among others), Thakor knows what she’s doing and wants to help you learn too.@CFPB The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is one of the newest government agencies, and one that can really help you out. Established to protect consumers from harmful corporate financial practices, the CFPB provides resources to Americans looking for information to make financial decisions. Follow @CFPB for the latest updates on their policies.@DailyWorth Daily Worth is a financial media company dedicated to helping women specifically, but everyone can benefits from the tips, tricks and tales that they provide. Their thought-provoking questions posed on Twitter will jump start your motivation and financial smarts.@Earn EARN is a non-profit organization that “gives low-income workers the power to create economic prosperity — for generations to come!” in the form of special savings and checking accounts as well as financial coaching. But on Twitter, their stories and advice collated from all over the Internet can help just about everyone.@Wisebread This account, run by two editors at Wisebread.com, is an awesome resource for all your questions, big or small. “Living large on a small budget” is their tagline, and their life hacks and featured deals will help you save more than a few bucks. Chime in for their Twitter chats, too!@TheBillfold Fascinating human interest pieces are the cornerstone of this site, with a conversational style as the hallmark of their contributions. The Billfold advertises itself as “everything about money you were too polite to ask,” and their stories will definitely make you think about the way you relate to money.@MoneyUnder30 Geared towards a younger demographic, Money Under 30 is an awesome resource for the financially-conscious millennial. Offering “simple, honest financial advice for starting out,” you can find everything Generation Y needs to know right here.@FrugalDad Frugal Dad has everything you will ever need to know about student aid, student loans, and saving money on that huge expense—college. From acceptance letter to graduate degree, Frugal Dad has been there and can help you every step of the way.@LearnVest From budgeting tools to shopping pointers, slashing bills to pricing trends, LearnVest really has it all. Sometimes they even have contests with cool, fiscally responsible prizes, so give them a follow!@MarketWatchPF The Personal Finance section of Market Watch does a great job of balancing news with telling you just how the financial happenings of the day will affect your wallet. They make knowledgeable predictions and share fascinating tidbits daily, sure to keep you in the know.@Daily_finance One of the more prolific accounts on this list, with nearly 25,000 tweets and counting, Daily Finance has advice for saving money at every turn. They provide great perspective on the news of the day and help even the most challenged consumer feel more informed about their money.@LauraAdams Host of the “Money Girl” podcast, Laura D. Adams is an award-winning author, blogger and speaker who can give you the inside scoop on just about anything money-related. Helping you prioritize and build your financial safety net are both in her bag of tricks, among many, many others.@NerdWallet Useful price comparison tools for everything from mortgage rates to hospital pricing, even loan calculators and airline fees, are a great facet to this company’s website. They tweet studies they’ve generated, infographics they’ve come up with, and apps, trends, and news galore.@alphaconsumer Kimberly Palmer, aka @alphaconsumer, is the senior money editor at U.S. News and World Report and author of Generation Earn: The Young Professionals Guide to Spending, Investing, and Giving Back. Palmer regularly tweets practical, first-hand advice and important need-to-know stories.@BankrateGreg Greg McBride is a senior financial analyst and Vice President at Bankrate, and he’s great at Twitter. He frequently participates in twitter forums with a specific hashtag, answering all the financial questions you could think of. He also makes several media appearances and live-tweets important financial announcements that every consumer should know.@YahooFinance If it’s not on Yahoo Finance, it’s not financial news. With up-to-the-minute updates on the news you (and your bank account) care about, this is one Twitter account that you really can’t afford to not follow.@MoneySmart Ben Edwards, the man behind Money Smart, learned the value of a dollar at age 12, when saving for a video game system he ended up forgoing with his newfound knowledge. Since then, he’s been cultivating great financial advice, promising “money tips for a better life.”@CreditExperts While you’re on your financial following spree, here’s the most important account for you to follow: Us! We provide all the content you care about, the advice you need to boost your credit, and tips to foster your financial health.More from Credit.comCan You Really Get Your Credit Score for Free?The Best Student Loan Advice on TwitterThe Twitter Hashtags Credit Cardholders Should Know