PHOENIX, AZ and AUSTIN, TX--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - 3D InCites, the premiere online content source for reliable 3D technology information, and TechSearch International, the leading market research and intelligence firm for advanced semiconductor packaging technology, today announced the winners of the first annual 3D InCites Awards Program, established to recognize achievements to further the commercialization of 2.5D and 3D IC technologies. Proceeds from the awards program benefit the IEEE Frances B. Hugle Engineering Scholarship, established to encourage young women to pursue careers in engineering.Awards were presented at a breakfast ceremony hosted by Impress Labs, Thursday, July 11, 2013 at the Impress Lounge during SEMICON West. The event featured guest speaker, Liam Madden, corporate VP of FPGA Development and Silicon Technology at Xilinx. Madden shared 'lessons learned' on the road to 2.5D and 3D IC commercialization. Ana Londergan, Senior Staff Engineer at Qualcomm Technologies, presented a $5,000 check on behalf of the 3D InCites Awards Program to Jan Vardaman, TechSearch International, representing the donation to the IEEE Frances B. Hugle Engineering Scholarship.A panel of nine industry expert judges and an online 'popular vote' represented the 10 votes to determine the winners from a field of 25 nominees in five categories.The 2013 3D InCites Awards winners are:Category: 3D Products (Design/Process) Winner: Xilinx Virtex 7 H580TCategory: 3D Design Tools Winner: Mentor Graphics Calibre Category: 3D Manufacturing Equipment Winner: EV Group EVG850TB/DB XTCategory: 3D Materials Winner: Dow Corning Temporary Bonding SolutionCategory: 3D Test and Reliability Tools/Equipment Winner: Mentor Graphics Tessant MemoryBISTFor more information on how to participate in the awards program, or become a sponsor, visit the 3D InCites Awards web page.About 3D InCites 3D InCites is an online content source founded in 2009 in an effort to stir up interest in 3D IC integration and 3D packaging technologies. For 3D integration to happen, open collaboration across the supply chain is required. Therefore, 3D InCites strives to inform key decision makers about progress in technology development, design, standards, and infrastructure in order to realize commercial production of 2.5D and 3D technologies. 3D InCites is powered by Impress Labs, a global creative and marketing communications agency specializing in building brands for technology companies in the semiconductor, solar energy and life science industries. For more information, visit www.3DInCites.com.About TechSearch International TechSearch International, Inc., founded in 1987, is the market research leader specializing in technology trends, microelectronics, packaging and assembly. Multi- and single-client services encompass technology licensing, strategic planning, and market and technology analysis. TechSearch International professionals have an extensive network of more than 15,000 contacts in North America, Asia, and Europe. For more information, contact TechSearch at tel: 512-372-8887, fax: 512-372-8889, or www.techsearchinc.com.