LUMBERTON, NJ--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Lucas Chevrolet, located in Lumberton, NJ, has cause for celebration with five of its 2013 cars receiving J.D. Power Awards. The 2013 J.D. Power and Associates Initial Quality Study presented five awards to Chevrolet; the most awards presented to any car brand this year.This is Chevy's best performance ever and it comes on the heels of a record 4.9 billion vehicles sold globally in 2012. Chevy's commitment to quality, steady introduction of fuel-efficient vehicles, and attention to customer feedback has paid off.The 2013 award winners are: the Chevy Camaro for Midsized Sporty Car; the Chevy Impala for Large Car; the Chevy Tahoe for Large SUV; the Chevy Silverado HD for Large Heavy-Duty Pickup; and the Chevy Avalanche for Large Light-Duty Pickup.Both the Camaro and the Tahoe picked up additional J.D. Power Awards for dependability. Inspired by the classic muscle car, the 2013 Camaro comes with new MyLink touch-screen audio and GPS navigation. Speed enthusiast will enjoy the Camaro ZL1: a supercharged V8 which delivers an impressive 580 horsepower. This year's Tahoe received an overall crash-test rating of four out of five stars from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and the Tahoe Hybrid model is a full hybrid that can travel on electricity alone at low speeds.The wide selection of award-winning vehicles means one thing for customers: lots of options. The experienced staff at Lucas Chevrolet is available to answer any questions customers have about the 2013 Chevys and help them choose the right vehicle for them. Lucas Chevrolet makes it easy to shop for your next vehicle. Customers can come down to the dealership, visit the online showroom or use the updated mobile site designed by First In Results. Whichever method you choose, Lucas Chevrolet offers competitive pricing, top trade-in values and a variety of financing options to meet almost any credit situation.For award-winning cars, stress-free sales and creative financing, look no further than Lucas Chevrolet.