TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) -
AudienceView is pleased to be providing insight on two panels at this week's 2013 Arts Marketing Association (AMA) conference in Sheffield, UK. Delegates will learn about mobile and social ticketing and the new world of fundraising from subject matter experts at AudienceView. AMA 2013 takes place July 16-18, 2013 at Sheffield City Hall.In an evening take-away session on July 17, Roger Tomlinson of the Ticketing Institute leads a discussion on social and mobile ticketing. AudienceView will contribute thought leadership on the importance of innovation and reaching consumers on the device and/or channel of their choice. With mobile projected to overtake the personal computer and Facebook predicted to dominate online commerce by 2016, Mr. Tomlinson will highlight ticketing and where it sits on the growth curve. In addition, he will review the 'state-of-the-art' and where social ticketing is taking us, with case histories and additional guest contributors including Rachel Miller, Head of Ticketing at The Lowry and Quaytickets.AudienceView will also participate in The Ticketing Institute's Pop-Up Fringe Event this afternoon at 2 p.m., with Adam Rubin, Director of Business Development, enlisted as a panelist. The event focuses on the importance of fundraising as UK arts organizations face substantial cuts in government funding and must replace these dollars with contributions from individuals, companies and foundations."Cultivating new supporters and loyal contributors has never been so important, so it is critical for organizations to recognize what ticketing, marketing and customer relationship management (CRM) can do to help," said Mark Fowlie, CEO for AudienceView. "The marriage of technology and data literacy, which translates raw information into insights and business value, plays a key role in live entertainment. Conferences like AMA are an ideal platform to share these best practices and build the skill sets of marketers in our industry. AudienceView looks forward to sharing its expertise with conference delegates."About AudienceView AudienceView provides a powerful, enterprise-level e-commerce solution to the entertainment industry, including commercial and not-for-profit arts organizations, regional ticketing agencies, arenas, film festivals, college athletics, professional sports teams, and race tracks. With customer relationship management (CRM) at the core, it ensures ticketing/e-commerce, marketing, fundraising, content management, venue management and business analytics are effectively integrated in a single, easy-to-use, web-based solution. Supporting over 550 venues across five six continents, AudienceView operates seamlessly across traditional and next-generation environments - from physical box offices, kiosks and desktop computers to social media, mobile and tablet devices.MarketView is the world's first white-label, self-serve e-commerce and CRM solution. Developed upon the company's widely deployed e-commerce platform, the innovative, cloud-based solution enables any business or brand to enter the emerging self-serve event management and ticketing market quickly, affordably and profitably. It provides more features and functionality than other currently available self-serve platforms.For additional information please visit AudienceView.com, or connect with the company on Facebook and Twitter.