ATLANTA, GA--(Marketwired - July 16, 2013) -  b-pack, the technology leader in Purchase to Pay solutions, today announced the appointment of Bruno Charrat as COO EMEA to support b-pack's international growth strategy. Charrat will manage b-pack's EMEA operations and will continue to strengthen their position in Europe as a leading e-procurement solution provider."We are glad to have Bruno join the team and lead our European operations. He played a major role as a co-founder, shareholder and administrator of b-pack. His valuable industry experience and personal qualities will have a significant impact for b-pack as we continue to grow our International efforts. We believe we have an important role to play in the coming years as a major innovative player on the purchase-to-pay market," says Julien Nadaud, CEO and founder of b-pack.Prior to b-pack, Bruno was a founding member of INSIDE Secure and was responsible for charting INSIDE's technology and product future. He has played active roles in the development of contactless industry standards and owns essential patents for NFC (Near Field Communication) and other technology innovations. Under his management, the company has grown from 7 to 400 employees."I am very excited by this opportunity and I am looking forward to the next step. B-pack's technology is revolutionary and the team is stacked with great potential. This puts us in a leading position in a growing market. I look forward to continue to grow on the great success that b-pack has built," said Bruno Charrat.About b-packFounded in 2000, b-pack is the leader in Purchase-to-Pay technology. Our customers use b-pack purchase-to-pay software to automate and optimize their procurement process and spend management. b-pack's Saas Cloud solutions are flexible, On Demand and easy to integrate with your ERP or any system. With offices in North America and Europe, b-pack has global reach to meet companies management needs. Learn more at  http://www.b-pack.com or call +1 404.602.0102. Follow @bpackpurchasing on Twitter.