SAN DIEGO, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - The summer fun continues at Barona Resort & Casino! On Tuesday, July 16 one winner will receive $1,000 every 15 minutes from noon to midnight during Barona's Rapid Fire Giveaway."We promised our players more fun in July and we meant it," said Rick Salinas, general manager of Barona Resort & Casino. "The whole casino will be celebrating with the Rapid Fire winners all day! And, you never know when Barona's Party People, an entire department of staff members who bring fun and games on the casino floor, might show up and add to the excitement with even more cash and prizes."Details of the Rapid Fire Giveaway:Winners will be called every 15 minutes from noon to midnight. Club Barona members who earn 500 or more myPOINTS starting at midnight will qualify for the giveaways. Once qualified, players are eligible for all remaining Rapid Fire giveaways on July 16 All active Club Barona players at slots and table games are eligible For complete details about Barona's Rapid Fire Giveaway, please visit www.barona.com or Facebook.Known as San Diego's loosest casino, Barona has over 2,000 slots and video poker machines, along with 80 table games. Games include Blackjack, Pai Gow Poker, Caribbean Stud, Barona Craps, Three-Card Poker, Four-Card Poker, Mississippi Stud, Let It Ride, Baccarat and Barona Roulette, as well as the latest innovations in chipless gaming including Chipless Roulette™, Chipless Three-Card Poker and Chipless Blackjack™.About Barona Resort & Casino Barona Resort & Casino, a AAA Four Diamond rated property, blends the best of San Diego's leading resorts with the gaming excitement of Las Vegas. LEED® Gold Certified by the U.S. Green Building Council, Barona features 400 guest rooms and suites all with beautiful views of the Barona Valley, a variety of award-winning dining options, the AmBience Day Spa, a full-service events center and the 18-hole championship Barona Creek Golf Club, rated the 3rd best resort course in California by Golfweek magazine. For Barona Resort & Casino reservations and information, visit www.barona.com, or call toll free 888-7-BARONA (722-7662). You can also join Barona on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Foursquare.