SCOTTSDALE, AZ--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Beamz Interactive, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BZIC ), an emerging growth technology company specializing in state-of-the-art interactive music products, is pleased to announce the appointment of veteran financial executive, Joan Brubacher, as President and Chief Financial Officer of the company. With over 30 years of experience, Ms. Brubacher is a leader with a strong track record of public company performance, with a particular emphasis in high-tech, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations. Fulfilling her dual role, Ms. Brubacher will oversee all product development, operations and supply chain management for the dynamic line of Beamz interactive music products, in addition to managing the company's finance, SEC reporting, and licensing arrangements."We are pleased to announce the appointment of someone with such broad-based operational and financial skills as Joan to our management team at this pivotal time," said Charlie Mollo, CEO of Beamz Interactive. "Joan and I worked together for many years at iGo, Inc., my last public company deal, and she is one of the most accomplished Chief Financial Officers I've ever met. In addition, her extensive experience with Wall Street and M&A transactions will be invaluable to our company as we implement the strategic growth initiatives we recently outlined over the next several years."Prior to Beamz, Ms. Brubacher served as a Principal and Chief Financial Officer at Resolute Commercial Services, a financial advisory, turnaround and consulting firm. Between August 1998 and February 2009, Ms. Brubacher served in various financial roles for iGo, Inc., including as its Executive Vice President and CFO beginning in August 2001. During her tenure with iGo, she was a member of the team that took the company public in 2000 and actively participated in closing a variety of other financings and M&A transactions. While leading the finance and operations team, she also implemented supply chain initiatives that reduced manufacturing overhead from 13% of revenue to 5% and balance sheet initiatives that improved cash and investments by 25% during a period of only break-even P&L performance. Prior to iGo, Ms. Brubacher was employed at several companies, including start-ups, where she held the positions of Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. She started her career on the audit staff of Ernst & Young (formerly Ernst & Whinney).Story continues"I'm excited about the opportunity to impact Beamz Interactive's business processes in the highly strategic role of President and CFO," said Joan Brubacher. "There is a tremendous opportunity for growth in the Beamz Interactive line of products, both domestically and abroad, and I'm honored to become a part of this emerging growth public company at such an exciting stage of its development."Ms. Brubacher is expected to start part-time at Beamz Interactive on August 1, 2013 and full-time on September 1, 2013. Ms. Brubacher will assist with the launch of the "Beamz by Flo" product line which is planned to take place in the third quarter of 2013. Ms. Brubacher holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Administration with a Concentration in Accounting from Kansas State University. She has previously held CPA licenses in both Kansas and Arizona.About Beamz Interactive, Inc.Based in Scottsdale, AZ, Beamz Interactive, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BZIC ) has created state-of-the-art interactive laser controller technology that can be used to develop new market opportunities in a wide variety of music, education, healthcare, gaming and consumer applications. In its first application, the Company developed an innovative new music technology and product offering that brings music to literally everyone in a way that was previously not possible. Beamz allows people that have no musical background or training to play and enjoy music within minutes, yet it has the depth to enable accomplished DJs, artists and musicians to perform, compose and create highly sophisticated interactive music. Beamz Interactive's technology portfolio includes multiple patents, patents pending and trade secrets covering interactive music, software, laser-based controllers, gaming applications and related designs and devices. For more information on Beamz, please visit: www.thebeamz.com.Follow Beamz on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.For comprehensive investor relations material, including fact sheets, multimedia resources, and videos regarding Beamz, please follow the appropriate link: Investor Portal, Beamz Product Video, and Investor Fact Sheet.Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's current expectations and projections about future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to the Company and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those discussed in the Company's periodic reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on its website (www.sec.gov). All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Other than as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update publicly or to revise these forward-looking statements.