SAN FRANCISCO, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Birst Inc., the leader in Cloud BI, today announced that it is further expanding its global presence, adding offices in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The company also today announced a strategic partnership with Veyron Software, a professional consulting services firm and former QlikTech partner. Following its expansion to the United Kingdom, Birst announced its continued expansion into new markets to meet the increased demand for its market-leading, enterprise-caliber Cloud BI platform.According to research from a leading analyst firm, the global market for business intelligence software will hit $13.8 billion in 2013 and is expected to grow beyond that in the coming years. For more than three years, Veyron has been serving the increasing demand for Business Intelligence solutions by organizations throughout Saudi Arabia, the UAE and the Middle East. Together, Birst and Veyron Software will further expand the ability for local organizations to benefit from Birst's enterprise-caliber BI solution."As the world increases the amount of data it is producing, the demand for a business intelligence solution that is not only powerful but efficient is growing as well. Birst provides access to information and then allows organizations to make informed business decisions based on that data. It's this very ability that drives efficiency up while driving ROI directly to the bottom line," said Brad Peters, CEO and Co-founder of Birst. "As we continue to grow our presence worldwide, expansion into the Middle East is a logical next step. We are thrilled to partner with Veyron, which will enhance and accelerate the adoption of our market-leading Cloud BI solution across this region and will assist in our ability to meet the continued growth in worldwide demand for our innovative BI solution."Less costly and more agile than Legacy BI and more powerful than Data Discovery, Birst is engineered with an automated data warehouse and rich, visual analytics, to give meaning to all types and sizes of data. More than 1,000 organizations rely on Birst for their business analytics needs. Partnering with Veyron Software will enable Birst's affordable and easy-to-deploy solution to be more accessible across the entire Middle East region."Birst's Cloud BI platform enables customers to see real results, fast. Its powerful, agile solution is a perfect complement to Veyron's suite of Business Intelligence tools and applications that we provide our clients. Moreover, our clients will be pleased with Birst's easy deployment and low TCO. Birst also offers both the Cloud and on-premise platform, catering all clients' needs," said Rabie Fares, Founder and CEO, Veyron Software.Headquartered in Dubai, Veyron Software is a DATA Expert company with a proven track record in conducting high-level professional consultant services and custom support. The company specializes in Business Intelligence, Data Warehouse, Analytics, and Cost Reduction Optimization solutions. Through their partnership with Birst, Veyron Software will distribute and implement Birst's award-winning Cloud BI solution throughout the Middle East region.About Birst Birst is the only enterprise-caliber Business Intelligence platform born in the cloud. Less costly and more agile than Legacy BI and more powerful than Data Discovery, Birst is engineered with an automated data warehouse and rich, visual analytics, to give meaning to data -- all types and sizes. Coupled with the agility of the Cloud, Birst gives business teams the ability to solve real problems. Fast. Find out why Gartner named Birst a Challenger in its most recent BI Magic Quadrant and why more than a thousand businesses rely on Birst for their analytic needs. Learn to think fast at www.birst.com and join the conversation @birstbi.