Bevil Wooding, Executive Director of BrightPath Foundation and Rhea Yaw Ching, corporate vice president of sales and marketing at Columbus sign MOU agreement. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreFREEPORT, THE BAHAMAS--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Columbus International Inc. ("Columbus"), a diversified telecommunications provider in the Caribbean, Central America and Andean region, announced that it has signed a three year Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with BrightPath Foundation ("BrightPath"), a Caribbean-based, international non-profit organization, to facilitate innovative technology education programs and digital content creation initiatives for the Caribbean region. Columbus and BrightPath will embark on initiatives, in collaboration with other education stakeholders, to develop and facilitate digital content creation and technology-based learning.Columbus and BrightPath began collaborating in June this year in Grenada with the development of the Caribbean's first-ever video-based syllabus orientation content for the Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) to support the launch of CAPE Digital Media Syllabus. In Trinidad, Columbus is supporting a three week technology camp, designed and hosted by BrightPath for young teenagers with an interest in creating mobile apps, animations or e-books. At the BrightPath TT.TechCamp participants will learn technical skills, as well as gain an understanding of their civic responsibility and the moral principles needed to use technology to make a positive impact on their communities."We are excited to be working with the pioneering team from BrightPath. Their commitment to Caribbean development is evident in the work across the region over the past few years. Their innovative approach to the design and delivery of solutions that meet a range of needs truly sets them apart. BrightPath's programs are uniquely suited to unlocking Caribbean creativity, capacity and ideals. We believe they are an excellent match for our social development goals for the region," said Rhea Yaw Ching, corporate vice president of sales and marketing at Columbus.Bevil Wooding, Executive Director of BrightPath Foundation stated, "BrightPath is pleased to be able to work with the forward-thinking team at Columbus. Their operations have already made a significant impact in increasing access to broadband Internet services across the Caribbean. Furthermore, their investment in supporting and advancing the use of technology in education regionally, is unprecedented. Working together, I am confident we can foster the development of more local content, and support the Caribbean in preparing for the technology-driven future, today."Columbus has a proud history of supporting education and technology innovation in the Caribbean. It has supported digital learning regionally by encouraging local content creation and offering free broadband access to all schools where its network passes. Similarly, BrightPath has pioneered in the creation of technology programmes and content tailored to the specific needs of emerging markets. Its initiatives are distinguished by their emphasis on empowering participants with marketable technical skills while orienting them to transform their communities.The MOU will center on five main areas:1. Provision of technology support to national and regional educators and educational institutions;
2. Creation of local content and digital media assets to support Caribbean culture and heritage;
3. Facilitation of programmes to build capacity and foster technology-based creativity and innovation;
4. Development of resources and public advocacy around digital awareness and responsible use;
5. Identification and promotion of Caribbean innovations and innovators.ABOUT COLUMBUS INTERNATIONAL:
Columbus International Inc. is a privately held diversified telecommunications company based in Barbados. The Company provides digital cable television, broadband Internet and digital landline telephony in Trinidad, Jamaica, Barbados, Grenada and Curacao under the brand name FLOW and in St. Lucia, St. Vincent & the Grenadines and Antigua under the brand name Karib Cable. Columbus also provides corporate data and cloud based services under the brand Columbus Business Solutions. Through its wholly owned subsidiary, Columbus Networks, the Company provides capacity and IP services, corporate data solutions and data center hosting throughout 42 countries in the greater Caribbean, Central American and Andean region.ABOUT BRIGHTPATH FOUNDATION: BrightPath Foundation is a technology-education focused non-profit organization based in Trinidad and Tobago. BrightPath programs simultaneously empower participants with globally marketable technical skills while equipping them with the values and mentalities necessary to transformation to their local communities. It offers training curricula, delivered online and via centers for technology-based learning and innovation throughout the Caribbean, in the U.K. and U.S.BrightPath provides training and hands-on experience in mobile app development, graphics and user-interface design, content development and app marketing through its iCAN workshops and Tech Camps for Youth. Its programs have be run in across the Caribbean, UK, US and the Pacific.Visit www.brightpathfoundation.org