SAN FRANCISCO, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Findly, the social recruiting market leader and a Symphony Technology Group (STG) company, announced today that it has acquired Bernard Hodes Group, the talent communications company, from parent agency Omnicom. The acquisition pairs Findly's highly innovative, SaaS-based recruitment technology with one of the most respected recruitment advertising agencies, Bernard Hodes Group, enhancing the value the combined companies bring to their more than 2,000 global clients.With their joint strengths, Findly and Hodes have the opportunity to reimagine and transform a recruiting industry in need of greater innovation and superior service. Findly gains the ability to further scale its offerings and coverage, and improve the creative and campaign elements of its customer deployments, while the acquisition enables Hodes to enhance its technical approach with robust SaaS capability. Clients of both companies benefit from their collective industry thought leadership, strategic partnerships and leading-edge creative, digital and advisory services, all delivered through an unrivaled technology platform."We are extremely excited to combine forces with Findly and be a part of this highly innovative company going forward," said Joe Fortunato, COO of Hodes. "The deep technical capabilities and creativity of Findly complement our existing expertise and leadership in the recruitment field; we will be able to provide our global clients with even stronger capabilities to enhance the way they find, engage and retain top talent.""Findly was attracted to Hodes based on the company's reputation for outstanding client service to industry leaders, award-winning employment branding and creative capabilities and long-held trusted advisor status in the recruitment advertisement field," said Jeff Russakow, CEO of Findly. "We look forward to leveraging our highly complementary capabilities to expand the breadth of our solutions and deepen the value of the services we provide to our global clients."About Bernard Hodes Group Bernard Hodes Group offers a full array of innovative strategies and solutions to help companies find, keep, and engage the best possible talent. Headquartered in New York, with offices and affiliates around the globe, Bernard Hodes Group offers advertising, employment branding, award-wining creative, strategic media planning and buying, direct and promotional marketing, public relations and other specialty communications services to thousands of clients. To learn more about Hodes, visit www.hodes.com.About Findly Findly is the creator and technology leader for On-Demand Talent. They help companies instantly hire the right person at the push of a button through a revolutionary automated talent platform that acquires, manages, screens, and engages only warm candidates. Built for the next-generation online and mobile workforce, Findly offers an automated, self-sustaining solution that helps identify quality candidates so companies can access the right talent when they need it. Learn more at http://www.findly.com.About Symphony Technology Group Symphony Technology Group (STG) is a strategic private equity firm with the mission of investing in and being a partner in building great software and services companies. In addition to capital, STG provides transformation expertise to enable its portfolio companies to deliver more value to clients to retain and attract the best talent and to achieve best-in-class business performance. All STG portfolio companies are expected to grow through innovation. STG's current portfolio consists of 12 global companies with combined revenue of approximately $2.5 billion and thousands of employees spread across North America, Europe and Asia. For more information, please visit www.symphonytg.com.