KELOWNA, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) -
FISSION URANIUM CORP. (TSX VENTURE:FCU)(FCUUF)(2FU.F) ("Fission" or "the Company") and Special Projects Inc (SPI), are pleased to announce the filing of a patent application for an invention entitled "System And Method For Aerial Surveying Or Mapping Of Radioactive Deposits". The invention relates to an airborne system and method for surveying a geographic area to detect and map the locations of radioactive geological deposits, such as boulders and clusters of rock.The invention results in a particularly high-resolution survey and is an improvement over known airborne surveying methods for radioactive deposits. The invention led Fission to discover the high-grade uranium boulder field at its Patterson Lake South (PLS) property in Canada's Athabasca Basin, home to the world's richest source of high-grade uranium.Ross McElroy, President, COO and Chief Geologist of Fission Uranium, commented,
"Using our patent-pending survey system, enables us to quickly and effectively explore large areas for radiometric anomalies. Our system has proved to be incredibly sensitive and accurate in locating anomalies of interest and provides a "leading-edge" ability to find occurrences of radioactive soil, boulders and outcrop at surface that may represent uranium."
Radiometric surveys are regularly employed in exploration to detect and map natural radioactive emanations (from uranium, thorium and potassium), from rocks and soils. Meteorological conditions, the topography of the survey area, the influence of the Earth's cosmic environment, the height of the sensor above ground and the speed of the aircraft are some of the variables which affect radiometric measurements. The invention resulting from the collaboration between Fission's technical team and SPI is particularly sensitive to addressing these variables.Prior to the Fission/SPI invention, airborne prospecting for radioactive minerals has been generally carried out by flying a fixed wing aircraft equipped with large detectors relatively high altitudes and high speeds over a geographical region to be surveyed. However, data collected in such a manner often does not allow for detection of localized geological deposits such as boulders and clusters of rock due to the large footprint of the measurement and the resulting background-to-boulder signature ratio. Additionally, many legacy systems, which used a combination of towed magnetometer sensors and large detector systems, lacked the electronic navigation and data acquisition tools required to collect and compile the information in a manner required to detect localized geological deposits.The Fission/SPI invention utilizes a fixed wing aircraft using at least one radiation detector element to fly at an ideal height and speed over a geographic area and store the radioactive signal data. Furthermore utilizing advanced processing technology to map the radiation signal data to accurately identify and flag high priority points, which in the case for PLS resulted in the discovery of the high-grade uranium boulders.About Fission Uranium Corp. Fission Uranium Corp. is a Canadian based resource company specializing in the strategic acquisition, exploration and development of uranium properties and is headquartered in Kelowna, British Columbia. Common Shares are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange under the symbol "FCU" and trade on the OTCQX marketplace in the U.S. under the symbol "FCUUF."ON BEHALF OF THE BOARDRoss McElroy, President and COOCautionary Statement: Certain information contained in this press release constitutes "forward-looking information", within the meaning of Canadian legislation. Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur", "be achieved" or "has the potential to". Forward looking statements contained in this press release may include statements regarding potential spin-out and listing of Fission Uranium and the future operating or financial performance of Fission and Fission Uranium which involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may not prove to be accurate. Actual results and outcomes may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in these forward-looking statements. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations. Among those factors which could cause actual results to differ materially are the following: market conditions and other risk factors listed from time to time in our reports filed with Canadian securities regulators on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. The forward-looking statements included in this press release are made as of the date of this press release and the Company and Fission Uranium disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as expressly required by applicable securities legislation.