COLORADO SPRINGS, CO--(Marketwired - July 16, 2013) -
Gain ICs, a revolutionary startup in the RF integrated circuit world, has announced a superior PLL (phase locked loop) circuit that will dramatically increase wireless data transmission speeds. The Gain ICs technology can transmit signals at a rate of 1 Gb/sec, far beyond the 5 Mb/sec of today's Quadrature Architecture (QAM) technology. Furthermore, the Gain ICs technology allows RF designs to return to single signal FM modulation techniques thus avoiding the noise issues and frequency spectrum crowding associated with QAM technologies.Jed Griffin, CTO of Gain ICs technologies explains, "This technology has eliminated the noise due to jitter peaking issues in standard PLLs. As a result, clean, clear signals can be transmitted at a much higher rate."In order for the wireless industry to improve along with the demand for faster transmission and larger file sizes (faster data streaming), data transfer rates will have to move into the Gb/sec realm, far beyond the Bluetooth 3.0 "theoretical" 24 Mb/sec limit that is so often touted yet never achieved in practice. Gain ICs has provided the solution and offers rates 50 times faster than the Bluetooth 3.0 theoretical 24 Mb/s."Entire teams are trying to solve this problem for DARPA," Jed explains. "They are proposing methods that have limited transmission range, use large amounts of bandwidth, and are susceptible to noise. This method has one signal compared to the two signals in a QAM architecture. Any variance in those QAM signals causes crosstalk and lost information. By using a single, fast signal, signal strength and reliability are much improved."Other advantages of the technology include less power consumption for longer talk times, fewer dropped calls, and the ability to free up the number of transmission channels in the crowded communication spectrum.The Gain ICs technology is being produced as a silicon product as well as being offered as a Intellectual Property (IP) block for incorporation into integrated circuits. The technology will benefit any wireless or single wire transmission product by dramatically increasing data transmission rates. About Gain ICsGain ICs is an advanced RF and analog integrated circuit design company. Specialties include Intellectual Property Blocks and integrated circuit Phase Locked Loop, and Delay Locked Loop products.