David L. Durst, MD - Plastic Surgeon in Huntsville Click here for high-resolution versionMoreHUNTSVILLE, AL--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Dr. David L. Durst's philosophy at his private plastic surgery practice is that plastic and cosmetic surgery should yield a healthy, natural appearance while subtly improving and highlighting each patient's individual physical characteristics. At the Cosmetic Surgery Center of Huntsville, brow lifts (or forehead lifts) are often performed as part of facelift treatments or in conjunction with eyelid surgery to rejuvenate the appearance of the patient's eyes.In a recent blog post titled, "Alabama Plastic Surgeon Answers Common Brow Lift Questions," Dr. Durst addresses many of the common questions brow lift patients have when visiting his practice for their initial consultation. Dr. Durst discusses the entire process of the procedure, from preoperative preparations to the patient's recovery and results.The Cosmetic Surgery Center of Huntsville's patient coordinator, Julie, speaks with brow lift patients about their desires and concerns. Using photographic results of previous procedures, she educates patients on what they can expect before seeing Dr. Durst for an examination to formulate a treatment plan.According to Dr. Durst, a second preoperative appointment usually takes place about three weeks before surgery, when he will go over the specifics of how the procedure will be performed. Dr. Durst highlights that this visit is an excellent time to bring a family member or friend who would be able to help the brow lift patient with their postoperative care. It is recommend that patients avoid smoking and tanning before and after surgery. Patients are also given advice on nutrition, vitamins, and medications.On the day of surgery, patients are interviewed by the anesthetist who explains the anesthesia process. Dr. Durst also explains to friends or family the best way to assist with the dressings and patients return home about an hour after the procedure. Afterward, Dr. Durst sees his outpatient brow lift patients for a follow-up appointment to answer any questions that have come up or to make any needed adjustments in the treatment regimen and medications.Huntsville plastic surgeon Dr. Durst says that the vast majority of patients begin to see the extent of their results two weeks after surgery and tend to feel fully recovered after a month. Should any significant concerns arise, Dr. Durst is always available to his patients by phone through an answering service at any time of day.About David L. Durst, MDDr. David Durst earned his medical degree at the University of Missouri-Columbia Medical School. Board-certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery, Dr. Durst completed both his general surgery and plastic surgery residencies at the University of Kentucky. The co-founder of the Cosmetic Surgery Center of Huntsville, which is the only free-standing plastic surgery center in the area certified by the American Association for Accreditation of Ambulatory Surgical Facilities, Dr. Durst is also affiliated with Crestwood Hospital, the Surgery Center of Huntsville, and the Madison Surgery Center. He is available for interview upon request.