Institutional Investor's 2013 Tech 50 Ranking Click here for high-resolution versionMoreNEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Institutional Investor has released its 2013 Tech 50 list, a ranking of the most successful, innovative and influential leaders in the financial technology industry. The list, which has been conducted annually since 2000, recognizes individuals and their organizations for their vision and agility in translating innovation into competitive advantage. In the No. 1 spot for a second year in a row is Thomas Secunda of Bloomberg LP. Institutional Investor's Senior Contributing Editor Jeff Kutler writes, "Secunda and his team of 3,000 technologists... have continued to produce process and product innovations at a breakneck -- and accelerating -- pace." The launch of Bloomberg's App Portal, the integration of Twitter feeds into the terminal work flow and announcing a $75 million venture capital fund are just a few of the achievements that make Secunda worthy of the top spot.This year's top 10 include:1. Thomas Secunda, Global Head of Financial Products and Services, Bloomberg
2. Jeffrey Sprecher, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Intercontinental-Exchange
3. Lance Uggla, Chief Executive Officer, Markit Group
4. Catherine Bessant, Global Technology and Operations Executive, Bank of America Corp.
5. Stephen Neff, Enterprise Chief Technology Officer, Fidelity Investments
6. Steven Scopellite, Chief Information Officer, Goldman Sachs Group
7. Dominique Cerutti, President and Deputy Chief Executive Officer, NYSE Euronext
8. Olivier Le Grand, Chief Executive Officer, Cortal Consors
9. Dan Mathisson, Head of Execution and Trading, U.S. Equities, Credit Suisse
10. David Craig, President, Financial & Risk, Thomson ReutersThe Tech 50 ranking of the leading executives in financial technology was compiled by Institutional Investor editors and staff, with nominations and input from industry participants and experts. Four primary sets of attributes were evaluated: achievements and contributions over the course of a career; scope and complexity of responsibilities; influence and leadership inside and outside the organization; and pure technological innovation. Of the 50 entries, 38 return from last year.To view the full story, please visit www.institutionalinvestor.com. About Institutional InvestorNow entering its fifth decade, Institutional Investor has consistently distinguished itself among the world's foremost financial publications with ground-breaking journalism and incisive writing that provides must-read intelligence for a global audience. This award-winning magazine is essential reading for the world's leading financiers, corporate executives and government officials, who rely on the breadth and depth of coverage that have made Institutional Investor such a premier publication.Throughout the year, Institutional Investor offers a host of proprietary research and rankings that serve as respected industry benchmarks, informing and influencing its carefully targeted audience throughout the year. To learn more about our research and rankings, please visit www.institutionalinvestor.com/research-and-rankings.