Clinton D. Humphrey, MD, FACS & J. David Kriet, MD, FACS - Facial Plastic Surgeons in Kansas City Click here for high-resolution versionMoreKANSAS CITY, KS--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Facial plastic surgeons J. David Kriet, MD and Clinton D. Humphrey, MD of University of Kansas Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery have recently extended their medical care and expertise outside the United States. Through separate efforts to enhance the level of facial plastic and reconstructive care received worldwide, Dr. Kriet served as a guest international faculty member for a facial surgery course in Vienna, Austria and Dr. Humphrey is presently volunteering his services on a medical mission trip to Antigua, Guatemala.According to their practice's blog post entitled, "Dr. Kriet Serves on Faculty at International Facial Surgery Course," Dr. Kriet was invited overseas to the 4th AOCMF Operative Techniques in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Course where he led a practical session on rhinoplasty and eyelid surgery. During his session, he instructed participants on the intricacies of the aforementioned surgical procedures and demonstrated open rhinoplasty, upper eyelid surgery, and lower eyelid surgery on a frozen human specimen to provide hands-on training. Due to the variance in rhinoplasty experience among his session participants, Dr. Kriet focused a majority of his efforts on reviewing essential nasal anatomy and passing along helpful tips he has attained through first-hand experience with complex rhinoplasty cases.In another recent blog post, Dr. Humphrey's pursuit to raise the level of care patients receive around the world is highlighted. According to "Dr. Humphrey Performs Revision Rhinoplasty in Guatemala," the Kansas City facial plastic surgeon is currently serving on a Medical Missions Foundation (MMF) trip dedicated to providing both clinical and surgical care to those in need. Early into the trip, Dr. Humphrey was presented with the case of a young man seeking help after previously receiving an unsuccessful rhinoplasty procedure. Utilizing cartilage taken from the boys ear, Dr. Humphrey performed a revision rhinoplasty procedure and was successfully able to reconstruct the boy's nose.Whether it be instructing other surgeons on the latest techniques available or actually performing procedures for those in need, the two surgeons say their ongoing goal is to do their part to help provide an opportunity for patients around the world to receive the medical care and attention they deserve. Regarding plans outside their current and most recent work abroad, Dr. Kriet notes that he and Dr. Humphrey continue to pursue every opportunity to strengthen their expertise, as well as that of other surgeons both nationally and internationally.About J. David Kriet, MD, FACSDr. J. David Kriet earned his medical degree from the University of Oklahoma College of Medicine and completed his Residency in Otolaryngology at the University of Washington, Seattle. He is a Diplomat and Senior Examiner of the American Board of Facial Plastic Surgery, as well as a Diplomat of the American Board of Otolaryngology and a Fellow of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Dr. Kriet is available for interview upon request.About Clinton D. Humphrey, MD, FACSDr. Clinton D. Humphrey earned his medical degree from the University of Missouri School of Medicine and completed his Residency in Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery at the University of Kansas Medical Center. He is certified by both the American Board of Otolaryngology and the American Board of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, and he is a member of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. Dr. Humphrey is available for interview upon request.The practice can be reached online at kufacialplasticsurgery.com or facebook.com/pages/KU-Facial-Plastic-Surgery/311515014843.