LAPORTE, CO--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - In order to better serve their four-legged patients, Laporte Animal Clinic & Supply has recently purchased a portable, digital X-ray machine and processor. Laporte veterinarian, Dr. Andrew Dean, will now be able to travel to the affected animal to conduct radiographic examinations and develop them on the farm, rather than bringing the animal to the office or processing film at the clinic.Since larger animals, such as equine, are often difficult to transport, this machine will save much time and hassle for the animal, its owner and the vet. This will also help avoid the problem of setting up second farm calls to retake radiographs if they are not conclusive.Laporte Animal Clinic is one of few vet clinics in the area with an equine veterinarian and farrier who excels in the comprehensive medical care of horses. Dr. Dean is skilled in lameness evaluations, nerve blocks, reproductive care, colic treatment, lacerations and joint injections, as well as therapeutic trimming and shoeing. He regularly travels outside of the office to visit these rather large patients. By now having access to a portable X-ray processor, Dr. Dean can continue his extensive work with equine."We are very happy with this new equipment and it has already proved very useful for making quick diagnoses in the field for our equine patients," Dr. Dean said.As technology changes, vets are able to better serve and diagnose animals. The portable X-ray processor comes with many benefits, including its lightweight and compact design. The processor weighs less than 55 pounds, making it easy to transport.The X-ray processor is also fairly user-friendly. Using digital technology, the processor produces instant high-quality images which can be sent by email to radiologists or specialists if needed. No film or chemicals are needed.Overall, the portable digital X-ray processor will make it easier and faster for Laporte Animal Clinic to diagnose an affected animal. Radiographs are easier to take and images can be produced immediately. This will make archiving a more organized process since images can now be stored electronically and transmitted easily.Laporte Animal Clinic & Supply is a unique mixed-animal clinic, specializing in equine and exotic animals. Their well-educated staff offers thorough care for all pets, including dogs, cats, small animals, horses and exotics of all sorts. They can be contacted via their Web site at http://www.laporteanimalclinic.com/ or by phone at 970-490-1999.