IRVINE, CA and LIEGE, BELGIUM and ANTWERP, BELGIUM--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - MDxHealth SA (
EURONEXT BRUSSELS :
MDXH ) and HistoGeneX N.V. today announced the commencement of a Pharmaco Molecular Diagnostic services collaboration. The collaboration enables MDxHealth to combine its epigenetic technologies with HistoGeneX's well-established pharmaco diagnostic services to provide to pharmaceutical companies and oncologists with integrated molecular diagnostic testing services. HistoGeneX's laboratory in Belgium will also perform MGMT service testing on behalf of MDxHealth's current and future clients."This collaboration with MDxHealth allows us to introduce epigenetic testing technologies to our pharmaceutical and oncology clients, further expanding our molecular capabilities and menu," said Dr. Mark Kockx, CEO of HistoGeneX. "We take pride in offering the most current, cutting-edge diagnostic methodologies to our clients and believe that the MGMT test, combined with MDxHealth's next-generation sequencing capabilities, adds significant value.""The collaboration with HistoGenex further broadens our PharmacoMDx services on a global basis and expands upon our biomarker discovery program at the Center of Pharmaco (epi)Genomics, a joint-venture with Ghent University," stated Dr. Jan Groen, CEO of MDxHealth. "HistoGeneX has established a strong reputation in the pharma industry, combining their Belgium-based CLIA certified laboratory services and expansive test menu with our US-based CLIA laboratory and Next Gen epigenetic capabilities, will enable both organizations to leverage our respective networks, and grow our customer base."MDxHealth's PharmacoMDx solutions leverage Next-Generation and Deep Sequencing technologies for the discovery of effective individualized epigenetic-based diagnostic and personalized therapeutic products. The identification and validation of epigenetic biomarkers are playing an increasingly important role in the development process of new compounds and companion diagnostics. With the recent completion of a multinational phase III study using its proprietary MGMT methylation test, and numerous completed and ongoing Phase I and II clinical trials, MDxHealth has demonstrated biomarker development and clinical trials management capabilities within the pharmaceutical communityAbout HistoGeneX HistoGeneX is a molecular pathology company offering a wide range of histology, pathology and molecular diagnostic services for pharmaceutical and hospital clients, including extensive biobanking capabilities, clinical trial diagnostics and research services. HistoGeneX was established in 2001 and has built an impressive track record offering contract diagnostics. As a testimony to HistoGeneX's dedication to quality, major pharmaceutical companies have worked with HistoGeneX over the past years to generate clinical testing data as part of their regulatory submission packages and files for CE marking. www.histogenex.com.About MDxHealth® MDxHealth is a molecular diagnostics company that develops and commercializes advanced epigenetic tests for cancer assessment and the personalized treatment of patients. The company's first commercial product, ConfirmMDx™ for Prostate Cancer, has been shown to help distinguish patients who have a true-negative biopsy from those who may have undetected cancer. MDxHealth helps to address a large and growing unmet medical need for better cancer diagnosis and treatment information. The company has a proprietary platform and a strong epigenetic product pipeline focused on the development of products for prostate, brain and lung cancers. The company is based in Irvine, California with a European headquarters in Liege, Belgium. For more information visit MDxHealth's website at www.mdxhealth.com.This press release contains forward-looking statements and estimates with respect to the anticipated future performance of MDxHealth and the market in which it operates. Such statements and estimates are based on assumptions and assessments of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which were deemed reasonable but may not prove to be correct. Actual events are difficult to predict, may depend upon factors that are beyond the company's control, and may turn out to be materially different. MDxHealth expressly disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements in this release to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based unless required by law or regulation. This press release does not constitute an offer or invitation for the sale or purchase of securities or assets of MDxHealth in any jurisdiction. No securities of MDxHealth may be offered or sold within the United States without registration under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or in compliance with an exemption therefrom, and in accordance with any applicable U.S. securities laws.NOTE: The MDxHealth logo, MDxHealth, ConfirmMDx and PredictMDx are trademarks or registered trademarks of MDxHealth SA. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners.To access the PDF version, please click here: http://hugin.info/137314/R/1716436/570570.pdf