GOLDEN, CO--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - In today's age, free time is a luxury. In a time conscious era, it only makes sense to squeeze in what you can, when you can. This applies to Christian Leeby's concept of yoga. He created Miracle of Yoga in 2010 as an online yoga video network, so people could practice yoga anywhere, anytime and at their own individual pace."If you want to feel better, practice yoga," Leeby said. "There's no other type of exercise that supports overall health while strengthening and opening the whole body."This month, Leeby rolled out a new Web design for Miracle of Yoga, featuring a vast library of free online yoga classes and poses and free yoga tips. Leeby's videos range in length from quick, 5 minute poses to full hour-long yoga classes and he accommodates yogis from beginner to advanced levels.The improved Miracle of Yoga site also boasts a blog, which is updated daily. The blog is a resource for individuals to gather information regarding recently published videos, health and yoga tips, yoga instruction and conversations with other yoga-enthusiasts.In addition to the redesign of the Web site, Miracle of Yoga has taken a more active role on social media accounts, posting regularly to Facebook, Google+ and Twitter. Yogis are encouraged to join in the conversation and get involved in discussions.Miracle of Yoga looks to grow dramatically within the upcoming months by creating an online forum for people to visit for access to consistently updated yoga workout videos, workouts, poses and tips."This new website allows anyone who has internet connection to get the fantastic benefits of yoga, and, it provides something for everyone," Leeby said. "If you're out of shape and need to start slowly, there's a class for you. If your back hurts and you only want a 5 minute practice, you'll find it on the site. If you're a passionate yogi who's been practicing for years, you'll find helpful instruction that will improve your existing practice."Yogis can find a suitable practice via the Miracle of Yoga Web site at http://miracleofyoga.com/.