RESTON, VA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) -
Netuitive, a leading provider of predictive analytics for IT, today announced the appointment of Elizabeth A. (Betsy) Nichols, Ph.D. as Chief Data Scientist for the corporation.Responding to increasing customer demand for its predictive IT analytics software that allows large organizations to understand the business impact of IT, Netuitive's research team has been expanding the company's portfolio of algorithms to support applications of different types across multiple industry sectors.Netuitive's solution represents the industry's largest portfolio of integrations and predictive analytics algorithms for IT operations, while offering an extensible platform to rapidly develop new customized integrations and algorithms via its API, SDK and Integration Studio.Dr. Nichols, a distinguished mathematician specializing in quantitative analytics, performance management and security metrics, will lead new algorithm development initiatives further enabling Netuitive to monitor new managed element types associated with next-generation IT architecture and online business applications.Netuitive is powered by patented Behavior Learning technology that automates the answer to the question "How well is the service performing?" by correlating IT infrastructure, application, and business metrics in real time. The value proposition is to reduce the time to resolve issues and detect performance anomalies before they cascade into real problems that impact quality of service."Betsy Nichols is a distinguished mathematician with exceptional expertise leveraging IT analytics as part of large scale enterprise systems and security management platforms," said Nicola Sanna, CEO of Netuitive. "She is uniquely qualified to lead Netuitive's research team and help us expand our addressable market by extending the number and type of applications that we support."Previously, Dr. Nichols co-founded PlexLogic, a provider of open analytics services for quantitative data analysis, risk modeling and data visualization. In her role as Chief Data Scientist, Dr. Nichols developed a cloud platform for collecting and cleansing data from heterogeneous sources, computing metrics, applying algorithms and models, and communicating results. Prior to Plexlogic, Dr. Nichols co-founded and served as CTO for ClearPoint Metrics, a security metrics software platform that was eventually sold to nCircle. Prior to ClearPoint Metrics, Dr. Nichols served in technical advisory and leadership positions at CA, Legent Corp, BladeLogic, and Digital Analysis Corp. At CA, Dr. Nichols was VP of Research and Development and was instrumental in developing and advancing CA Unicenter as a market leading platform. After receiving a Ph.D. in Mathematics from Duke University, Dr. Nichols began her career as an operations research analyst developing war gaming models for the US Army."Netuitive has assembled a highly talented team of individuals who have developed a powerful product serving an impressive list of Fortune 500 companies in a rapidly expanding market," said Dr. Nichols. "I am truly delighted to join this team and look forward to contributing to the company's future expansion."About Netuitive Netuitive is the leading provider of predictive analytics for IT.  Netuitive replaces human guesswork with automated mathematics and analysis to visualize, isolate, and proactively address IT performance issues before they impact the business. The world leading companies, including eight of the 10 largest banks, large Telcos and major eCommerce companies rely on Netuitive to proactively manage the performance of their critical applications and underlying IT infrastructures -- physical, virtual and cloud. Industry recognition includes the 2011 "CTO Award for Innovation" from Morgan Stanley, 2013 CODiE Finalist Award for "Best Systems Management Solution," the 2013 EMA Radar Award for "Advanced Performance Analytics," and three "Best of VMworld" awards for Virtualization Management. For more information visit www.netuitive.com