The TDF8546A, a new addition to NXP's industry-leading family of Class-AB audio amplifiers. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreEINDHOVEN, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - NXP Semiconductors N.V. (
NASDAQ :
NXPI ) today announced enhancements to its industry-leading family of Class-AB audio amplifiers, providing improved quiescent current reduction and decreased smart phone signal interference. The integrated GSM input filtering is built in for increased EMC robustness. Building on NXP's expertise in Best Efficiency Mode audio applications, the TDF8546A (4x 25Watt) and TDF8548A (4x 28Watt) are also the industry's first Class-AB amplifiers to extend line driver detection to 1kOhm load impedance.As smartphone connectivity becomes increasingly central to automotive infotainment applications, the industry has to ensure that audio quality is not compromised by smartphone signal interference. Designed specifically for automotive applications, NXP's Class-AB audio amplifiers provide increased GSM robustness to mitigate the influence of smartphones on loud speakers, responding to OEMs' demand for a cost-effective solution that improves sound quality.The TDF8546, TDF8546A and TDF8548A amplifiers are quad-channel Class-AB amplifiers available with NXP's ground-breaking Best Efficiency Mode operating as low as 6V, reducing power dissipation by 17% compared to other high-efficiency solutions in its class. Both amplifiers enable a seamless audio experience during sudden supply voltage drops in hybrid electric vehicles and other cars using start-stop systems.The enhancement of NXP's family of Class-AB audio amplifiers further supports NXP's vision of connecting the car. From telematics and car-to-x communications to smarter infotainment systems, NXP is supplying the chips making the connected car a reality."In-car use of smart devices has become common over the past few years, but the potential interference they generate creates a major headache for audio OEMs aiming to provide excellent sound performance," said Torsten Lehmann, senior vice president and general manager car entertainment solutions at NXP Semiconductors. "These new amplifiers significantly reduce the effect that smart device signals can have on the speaker cable, while delivering superior sound performance. By improving on our best-in-class family of Class-AB audio amplifiers, NXP continues to provide robust, cost-effective, high-quality infotainment solutions to the automotive market."FeaturesFour channels operating at various signal condition 4 x 25W (TDF8546A) output power (14.4V, 10% THD, 4 Ohm) 4 x 28W (TDF8548A) output power (14.4V, 10% THD, 4 Ohm) Operating supply voltage from 6 to 18V Excellent sound performance -- no pop noise; suitable for 2 Ohm to 4 Ohm speakers Best Efficiency Mode -- low quiescent current per channel Power dissipation reduced by 17% compared to other high-efficiency Class-AB amplifiers Power dissipation reduced by 35% compared to standard Class-AB amplifiers No switch noise due to 'soft switching' Protection against short thermal overload and ESD (Electrostatic Discharge) I2C bus diagnostics, including start-up diagnostics, clip detection and pre-warning Small footprint: HSOP36 and DBS27 packagesLinks Product page: http://www.nxp.com/products/automotive/audio_amplifiers/class_ab_car_radio/About NXP Semiconductors NXP Semiconductors N.V. (
NASDAQ :
NXPI ) provides High Performance Mixed Signal and Standard Product solutions that leverage its leading RF, Analog, Power Management, Interface, Security and Digital Processing expertise. These innovations are used in a wide range of automotive, identification, wireless infrastructure, lighting, industrial, mobile, consumer and computing applications. A global semiconductor company with operations in more than 25 countries, NXP posted revenue of $4.36 billion in 2012. Additional information can be found by visiting www.nxp.com.Forward-looking Statements
This document includes forward-looking statements which include statements regarding NXP's business strategy, financial condition, results of operations and market data, as well as other statements that are not historical facts. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Except for any ongoing obligation to disclose material information as required by the United States federal securities laws, NXP does not have any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements after NXP distributes this document, whether to reflect any future events or circumstances or otherwise. For a discussion of potential risks and uncertainties, please refer to the risk factors listed in NXP's SEC filings. Copies of NXP's SEC filings are available from the SEC website, www.sec.gov.