TORONTO and NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - OnX Enterprise Solutions, a leading data center IT Solutions Provider, today announced it has been recognized by UBM Tech Channel as a part of CRN's 2013 Solution Provider 500 list, which identifies the top technology integrators in the U.S.A. and Canada based on revenue size. Formerly known as the "VAR 500", the Solution Provider 500 (SP500) ranks the highest producing solution provider organizations in the IT channel from hardware sales, software sales, and managed IT services. OnX Enterprise Solutions improved their ranking and placed 43, compared to their 84 placement in the 2012 ranking."We aim to highlight the 'best of the best' among the channel community, and the Solution Provider 500 is no exception. Now in its 18th year, this prestigious list serves as a valuable industry resource to help end users quickly identify top performers and make the most well-informed choices for their business," said Robert Faletra, CEO, UBM Tech Channel. "The companies listed have a forward-thinking approach to solutions sales. They are also highly dedicated to putting their customers' needs first to accelerate the adoption of innovative technology and drive immediate results. We congratulate OnX Enterprise Solutions for making this year's list and look forward to covering their continued success.""It is an honor to be recognized, once again, by CRN. The Solution Provider 500 list is annual validation for OnX of our work to expand our solution offerings and build on our reputation of great customer service," said OnX CEO, Ed Vos. "We are especially proud of the significant jump OnX made from ranking 84th in 2012 to 43rd this year. We've seen significant growth in the past year thanks to triple digit growth in our Cloud and Managed Services business along with substantial growth in software and professional services, an increase in new business in all regions and continued development of our Networking practice. Our recent acquisition of Worknet reinforces our commitment to provide comprehensive Cloud and Managed Services throughout North America."About UBM Tech Channel UBM Tech Channel, a UBM company is the premier provider of IT channel-focused events, media, research, consulting, and sales and marketing services. With more than 30 years of experience and engagement, UBM Tech Channel has the unmatched channel expertise to execute integrated solutions for technology executives, managing partner recruitment, enablement and go-to-market strategy in order to accelerate technology sales. To learn more about UBM Tech Channel, visit us at http://www.ubmchannel.com. Follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/UBMTechChannel About OnX
OnX Enterprise Solutions is a global enterprise data center solutions provider with a suite of end-to-end solutions including the industry's leading Federated Cloud solution offerings. The company designs, builds and manages complete data center environments comprised of multi-vendor offerings in four core areas -- Cloud & Managed Services, Technology Solutions & Professional Services, Digital Application Services, and Hardware & Software Solutions. Over the past 30 years, OnX has helped clients achieve exceptional business results that accelerate their growth and value. With global headquarters in Toronto, Canada and US based headquarters in New York, NY, OnX has a team of more than 600 IT professionals, revenues of more than $700 million, and clients and offices throughout North America and Europe. OnX is a privately held company and majority owned by Marlin Equity Partners. For more information, visit: www.OnX.com