Sage CRM and Project Insight integration passes comments from the sales team to the project team and vice versa. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreIRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Project management software (http://www.projectinsight.net) provider Project Insight will highlight its CRM, project management, and accounting solution integration capability at Sage Summit 2013 next week.Sage Summit is a gathering of Sage partners, resellers and customers which will be held in National Harbor, MD from July 21st to 26th. Project Insight, a cloud based project management solution, is the first to demonstrate its integration of the popular CRM and accounting solutions from Sage. The three-in-one integration is targeted to small and medium sized organizations."We will be demonstrating a terrific solution for small to medium sized project centric teams to manage their businesses, end to end," stated Cynthia West, vice president of Project Insight. "The sales team may work in the system they are familiar with, the CRM; the project team can manage all tasks and work in the project management software, while the accounting users maintain all financials in the accounting or ERP system. The data passes seamlessly from solution to solution, providing each part of the organization with the information they need in real-time."Project Insight has been a Sage partner since 2007 and has integrated its leading project management solution with:Sage CRM Sage 100 Sage 300 Sage 500To learn more, visit booth 211 at the conference.About Sage Summit Sage Summit is the largest education and networking event for Sage customers and partners. Join together with an expected 4,000 members of the Sage community and get inspired. Like no other conference, Sage Summit will help users become more productive, push the envelope, hear what's working for others, and bring a new energy to the workplace.About Project Insight Project Insight cloud project management software is powerful for project managers, easy for everyone. Project Insight offers a SaaS edition as well as an on-premise edition. Project Insight's software supports The Project Management Institute, Inc.'s (PMI) standards, and is compliant with the PMBOK® Guide. Project Insight and Metafuse are registered trademarks of Metafuse, Inc. Other brands are registered trademarks of their respective owners.