SAN FRANCISCO, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Sauce Labs Inc, the leading provider of cloud-based mobile and web application testing solutions, today announced the closing of a $5 million Series C funding from Toba Capital, noted entrepreneur Scott Banister and existing investors, including Triage Ventures. The funding will be used to support Sauce Labs' global expansion and grow the company's support, service and go-to-market strategies, particularly around its mobile and enterprise offering."The market opportunity for automated application testing is large, and the programmatic model is required to support mobile and web applications," said Tyler Jewell, who led the Toba Capital investment and will be joining Sauce Labs' board of directors. "We're seeing this shift accelerate across the industry with Sauce Labs in the sweet spot of this market, adding big customer names with a highly scalable and durable testing as a service."Sauce Labs has run over 50 million automated tests since 2009. With 6 million tests executed in June by 10,000 users, test execution is growing more than 10 percent each month. Sauce Labs is used by the largest consumer and enterprise brands, including Dropbox, Eventbrite, McKesson, Mozilla, Salesforce (also an investor), Yammer and Yelp. Momentum in the enterprise market has also helped to court new investors like Scott Banister, the former PayPal board member and founder of IronPort, which Cisco acquired for $830 million."Enterprises are quickly realizing the value of cloud tools that adapt to their existing business processes. They want to scale development functions like testing without having to change the way they build applications," said Scott Banister. "Multiplatform cloud testing is a strategic business advantage. With strategic support from Salesforce.com, Sauce Labs is providing a clearer path for enterprises to run large test suites in the cloud.""Demand for cloud-based application development tools is exploding and we are investing to support the needs of larger enterprises," said John Dunham, CEO and co-founder of Sauce Labs. "We will use this financing to expand sales while expanding our portfolio to support every type of web and mobile application."Sauce Labs' scalable, managed cloud testing service supports over 150 combinations of browser, operating system and device platforms. It's based on a distributed network of secure, high-performance data centers that provide high availability and low-latency access to test resources. Around-the-clock expert monitoring and administration allow customers to offload the administrative burden of configuring, operating and scaling large test environments for mobile and web applications. Sauce Labs originally launched to support Selenium testing in the cloud and has expanded to also include manual testing and Javascript unit testing, along with native, hybrid and mobile web application testing.Chad Westfall, Director, Web Delivery at Intercontinental Hotel Group, said, "Sauce Labs is truly a developer's company and its products are responsive to the evolving needs of development organizations like ours that are striving to operate more efficiently. With Sauce Labs supporting our continuous integration practices, greater collaboration among our teams and deeper insight into our code performance, our agile development processes can help make a meaningful contribution to our company's overall competitiveness."Additional Online ResourcesRead the Sauce Labs blog post about the funding: http://sauceio.com/?p=9550 Follow @saucelabs on Twitter: https://twitter.com/saucelabsAbout Sauce Labs Sauce Labs, the leading web and mobile application testing company, provides cloud-based testing tools that greatly increase developer productivity. Sauce Labs' automated testing service lets users run functional and unit tests on their native mobile apps, mobile web apps and desktop apps across multiple browsers in parallel without setting up or maintaining test infrastructure. Its manual testing service lets users interactively test websites on more than 150 browser/OS platforms while recording screenshots and videos of bugs. To date, more than 50 million tests have run in the Sauce cloud. Sauce Labs is headquartered in San Francisco, California. For more information, visit http://saucelabs.com.