Lithium-ion batteries will benefit from shifting application needs to the tune of $37 billion in 2018 Click here for high-resolution versionMoreBOSTON, MA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - The market for energy storage in mobile applications is poised for seismic shifts as it grows from $28 billion in 2013 to $41 billion in 2018, a nearly 50% growth over the next five years, according to Lux Research.Consumer electronics remains the majority of the Li-ion market at $25 billion, but automotive will close the gap, growing to $15 billion. However, profound technical transformation is also underway: Li-ion will overtake lead-acid in revenues, thanks to increasing use in e-bikes and supplanting nickel-metal hydride (NiMH) batteries in hybrids."Makers of devices and automobiles have a range of energy storage options available to them, from Li-ion batteries to evolving lead-acid battery design to supercapacitors," said Cosmin Laslau, Lux Research Analyst and the lead author of the report titled, "Seizing the Shifting Opportunity in the $41 Billion Mobile Energy Storage Market.""However, the landscape is shifting, and to survive and profit businesses must understand the long-term trends in energy storage," he added.Lux Research analysts studied the emerging landscape and forecast the market sizes for mobile energy storage technologies, identifying countries and applications that provide the greatest opportunities. Among their findings:More wins for Li-ion. Li-ion will benefit from shifting application needs, and account for $37 billion in 2018. It will harvest new opportunities ranging from inexpensive packs for e-bikes to 48V systems in micro-hybrids.
Silicon anodes help open floodgates in consumer electronics. Current limitations in energy storage are a constant pain point for mobile electronics like smartphones and tablets, and hold back innovations such as wearable computers. Silicon anodes can offer improvements of 30% to 45% in Li-ion battery capacity, which the industry is eagerly awaiting.
Transportation presents greater growth opportunities. Even though consumer electronics will continue to present the largest opportunity in terms of absolute dollars, the greater growth opportunities will come in transportation. Li-ion's compound annual growth rate (CAGR) through 2018 will be 22% in e-bikes, 34% in hybrids, and 22% in plug-in hybrids.
The report, titled "Seizing the Shifting Opportunity in the $41 Billion Mobile Energy Storage Market," is part of the Lux Research Mobile Energy Intelligence service.About Lux ResearchLux Research provides strategic advice and ongoing intelligence for emerging technologies. Leaders in business, finance and government rely on us to help them make informed strategic decisions. Through our unique research approach focused on primary research and our extensive global network, we deliver insight, connections and competitive advantage to our clients. Visit www.luxresearchinc.com for more information.