TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) -Editors' note: Two photos are associated with this press release.Soricimed Biopharma Inc., a private clinical stage company developing novel cancer therapeutics and diagnostics, is pleased to announce the appointment of Tom Reeves, an experienced C-level executive with experience running both public and private healthcare organizations, to the Board of Directors, as well as Mario Thomas, PhD, to the Soricimed Executive team, as V.P. Business Development.Tom Reeves currently serves as President & CEO of Interface Biologics. Previously, Tom was the President of Occulogix where he was instrumental in their 2004 IPO that raised over $100M. A Harvard graduate, Tom began his career at BCG and has managed start-ups to billion $+ technology and medical device enterprises in Canada, Europe and the UK.Mario Thomas, is an accomplished senior executive with over 20 years in leadership roles directing corporate growth including mergers and acquisitions. He most recently founded the International Commercialization Alliance, bringing 49 organizations from 18 countries together to share knowledge and collaborate in order to improve commercializing research outcomes. He previously served as President & CEO of Entomed SA, a world leader in the discovery and development of medicines derived from insects as well as TerraGen Discovery Inc., an international biotechnology company with global projects in the fight against infections."I've been following the Soricimed story for the last couple of years and have been impressed with the breadth of their technology platform and the promising therapeutic data coming from both their pre-clinical and clinical studies," commented Tom Reeves. "I look forward to working with Paul, Jack and the Soricimed team as they transition to the next stage of development and commercialization.""We are extremely pleased to have Tom join our Board of Directors and Mario join our Executive team", stated Paul Gunn, President & CEO, Soricimed Biopharma. "Their combined experience will be invaluable as we grow as an organization and explore strategic partner opportunities."Story continuesSoricimed is currently in the midst of a Phase I trial of their anti-cancer agent SOR-C13. The trial is taking place at cancer centres in the United States and Canada and will run until Q1 2014, with interim results expected later this year.ABOUT SORICIMED BIOPHARMA Soricimed Biopharma Inc., a private Canadian clinical stage company developing novel cancer therapeutics and diagnostics, was created in 2005 by Professor Jack Stewart and Paul Gunn following the discovery and development of a proprietary peptide, soricidin. Soricidin is the basis for Soricimed Biopharma Inc.'s targeted cancer management program focused on cancer therapeutics and diagnostics. Using focused innovative strategies in collaboration with major world-class cancer research institutions, Soricimed's drugs have demonstrated a capability to reduce cancer cell viability, induce apoptosis and to reduce human tumour volume while minimizing side-effects in various classic animal and in vitro tumour models. Privately held, Soricimed is funded through private investors and various programs from the Government of Canada. For more information please visit, www.soricimed.com.The photos associated with this press release are available at the following addresses:http://www.marketwire.com/library/20130715-TomReeves-hi.jpghttp://www.marketwire.com/library/20130715-MarioThomas-hi.jpg