HONG KONG, CHINA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) -Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited, The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and Hong Kong Securities Clearing Company Limited take no responsibility for the contents of this announcement, make no representation as to its accuracy or completeness and expressly disclaim any liability whatsoever for any loss howsoever arising from or in reliance upon the whole or any part of the contents of this announcement.
SOUTHGOBI RESOURCES LTD.
(a company continued under the laws of British Columbia, Canada with limited liability)
(Stock Code: 1878)
SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ.TO)(1878.HK) today announced the appointment of Enkh-Amgalan Sengee as new President and Executive Director of SouthGobi Sands LLC ("SGS"), the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, effective July 15, 2013.Please see the attached announcement for more details.
By order of the Board
SouthGobi Resources Ltd.
Ms. Kay Priestly
Chairperson
Hong Kong, July 16, 2013As of the date of this announcement, the executive Director is Mr. Kenneth Ross Tromans, the non-executive Directors are Ms. Kay Priestly, Mr. Lindsay Dove, Mr. Sean Hinton, Mr. Brett Salt, and Mr. Kelly Sanders, and the independent non-executive Directors are Mr. Pierre Bruno Lebel, Mr. Andre Henry Deepwell, and Mr. William Gordon Lancaster.* For identification purposes only
July 16, 2013
SouthGobi Resources announces the appointment of Enkh-Amgalan Sengee as President and Executive Director of
SouthGobi Sands LLC
HONG KONG - SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ.TO)(1878.HK) ("SouthGobi" or "Company") today announced the appointment of Enkh-Amgalan Sengee as new President and Executive Director of SouthGobi Sands LLC ("SGS"), the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, effective July 15, 2013.Mr. Enkh-Amgalan joins SGS from Clean Energy LLC, a subsidiary of Newcom Group, where he was CEO and led the successful development of the first commercial scale wind farm in Mongolia. Prior to this, he gained extensive experience in the extractive industry through a number of senior management positions at the MCS Group of companies. Most recently this included Chief Executive Officer of Nordstar Resources LLC and MCS Petro Mongolia LLC. Before this, he was Vice President, Corporate Development at Mongolian Mining Corporation.Mr. Ross Tromans, President and CEO of SouthGobi said: "I am extremely pleased to welcome Enkh-Amgalan as SGS's new President and Executive Director and a member of the senior executive team. Enkh-Amgalan is not only a seasoned executive with extensive management skills but he also brings with him in-depth knowledge of the Mongolian mining and energy industries. All of us at SouthGobi look forward to working with and benefiting from Enkh-Amgalan's strong leadership and experience as we focus on strengthening the Company's core business performance and realizing its production potential."Mr. Enkh-Amgalan said: "I am excited to be joining SGS at this important time for the business. The coal industry in Mongolia has experienced a difficult market environment and there have been leadership changes within the Company as it refocuses its business. I look forward to being a member of this team and contributing to improve its overall performance."Mr. Enkh-Amgalan has a Master's degree in International Economics from the Monterey Institute of International Studies, a graduate school of Middlebury College in the United States, and holds a BA in International Affairs from the National University of Mongolia.About SouthGobiSouthGobi is listed on the Toronto and Hong Kong stock exchanges, in which Turquoise Hill, also publicly listed in Toronto and New York, has a 58% shareholding. Turquoise Hill took management control of SouthGobi in September 2012 and made changes to the board and senior management. Rio Tinto has a majority shareholding in Turquoise Hill.SouthGobi is focused on exploration and development of its metallurgical and thermal coal deposits in Mongolia's South Gobi Region. It has a 100% shareholding in SouthGobi Sands, the Mongolian registered company that holds the mining and exploration licenses in Mongolia and operates the flagship Ovoot Tolgoi coal mine. Ovoot Tolgoi produces and sells coal to customers in China.