SUGAR LAND, TX--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Techline Mfg. (Spanish Fort, Alabama) understands that in today's economy, contractors, engineering firms, and end users in the heavy industrial market are looking to save time and money.Techline is pleased to announce that it is here to assist. The Snap Track cable tray system was designed to drastically reduce installed costs through superior strength, which requires fewer supports and reduces labor costs by utilizing patented Push-Pin technology. The Snap Track system was developed to be an alternative to conduit and wire basket trays in an industrial environment, for the purpose of transitioning low power, signal, control or other data cables from a ladder-type tray to the point of use. After numerous installations since the launch of Snap Track in 2009, Techline compiled a comprehensive cost comparison study. The study documented a 50% installed cost reduction when SnapTrack was used in lieu of conduit. The SnapTrack system also proved to provide a 15% installed cost reduction when compared to traditional (bolted) ventilated bottom channel cable tray system.Due to the drastic installation savings, customers in the Oil & Gas, Chemical Processing, Power, Pulp & Paper and Solar Energy industries have specified Snap Track as an alternative to conduit and wire basket systems when transitioning from ladder tray to the point of use.Techline would like to assist you in doing the same. For more information or a copy of the comprehensive Cost Comparison Study, please contact Techline at 1-800-395-3369 or sales@techlinemfg.com.Techline is a leading industrial manufacturer of tubing trays, cable trays and instrumentation supports. Techline is committed to continuous improvements and customer service. Should you have any comments or suggestions on how we may better serve our customer base, please feel free to contact us.Industrial Info Resources (IIR), with global headquarters in Sugar Land, Texas, and eight offices outside of North America, is the leading provider of global market intelligence specializing in the industrial process, heavy manufacturing and energy markets. Industrial Info's quality-assurance philosophy, the Living Forward Reporting Principle™, provides up-to-the-minute intelligence on what's happening now, while constantly keeping track of future opportunities. To contact an office in your area, visit the www.industrialinfo.com "Contact Us" page.