Fanminder Offers tracks campaign results and net revenue in real-time, as it is calculated on the campaign dashboard. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreWOODLAND HILLS, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) - Merchant services leader, Total Merchant Services (Total), today announced its attendance at Mid-West Acquirers Association (MWAA) and the showcasing of the company's newly launched Fanminder Offers marketing solution. As one of the nation's fastest-growing credit card merchant account acquirers, Total's offerings empower sales partners with market differentiating solutions that focus on revenue growth for small business merchants. Total will be in attendance at MWAA from July 17th - 18th at the Chicago Marriott, Booth #SE44."Small businesses and retailers seek to partner with merchant service providers that change the conversation from competitive credit card processing rates to business enablement and social media marketing," said Joe Kaplan, CEO, Total Merchant Services. "Total is opening doors for our sales partners by providing them easy-to-use, technology-driven business solutions that drive new revenue to their bottom line."Total's pricing model and unique technology-driven services continue to make a dramatic impact for small business owners. Leonard Gleason, Total's sales partner in Southern California, underscores the impact across his accounts."As compared to other merchant services, Total's competitive pricing helped 20 small businesses save over $50,000 in the past 12 months and one merchant even saved more than $6,000," Gleason said. "Now with Fanminder Offers, I have a whole new avenue to help merchants extend their sales with an easy-to-use social media marketing tool that is a value-add when they sign up with Total."With Fanminder Offers merchants can create promotional offers by using customized templates to fill in their offers and push it out to their social media followers, email list and website. They can also track their campaign results and net revenue in real-time, as it is calculated on the campaign dashboard.Nationwide, Total's sales partners have a unique advantage over competing merchant services. Chris Judy, a Harrisburg, PA-based national sales partner servicing over 200 merchant accounts explains the value Total brings to his accounts."Fanminder has been a door opener -- I set up a meeting quickly with a bike shop after trying to get in with them for months. When they contacted their current merchant service provider -- they could provide them the pricing but nothing to match the Fanminder solution."For more information, visit www.totalmerchantservices.comAbout Total Merchant ServicesTotal Merchant Services (Total) focuses on enabling individuals to manage and grow their businesses. Since its launch in 1996, Total has grown from being a leader in merchant services to providing more all-encompassing solutions for merchants and sales partners. With a focus on technology-driven products to help businesses prosper, Total has a solution for just about every organization. That's why Total was named ISO of the Year by the Electronic Transactions Association (ETA); for providing payment industry sales professionals with outstanding product and service innovation to support merchants. For more information visit: www.isooftheyear.com or www.totalmerchantservices.com.