IRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 16, 2013) -
XRoads Networks, a leading provider of unified bandwidth management platforms, today announced the release of its latest link bonding technology, codenamed Accelibond. This latest version of its Multi-Session Acceleration technology includes new optimization features which provide improved acceleration for content which resides on multiple remote resource servers. The Accelibond name replaces XRoads Networks previous technology name "Broadbond" which has been shipping for the past several years.With this latest innovation, XRoads Networks continues to demonstrate its leadership in the area of link bonding and increasing download speeds across the Internet without having to employ server side equipment. Accelibond is unique in its ability to perform Internet "link bonding" and acceleration compared other solutions which require equipment at each end of connection in order to perform "tunnel bonding" or perform simple "link balancing" which does not use multiple links at the same time for the same download.Additionally, Accelibond employs next generation technology in order to determine the best method to download content when it exists on multiple remote resources. The Accelibond technology is ideal for WiFi hotspots, retail and hospitality solutions as well as multi-tenant, healthcare, and educational deployments.XRoads Networks continues to work with its customers to improve download speeds for end-users and accelerate network connectivity across a single or multiple Internet connections when content is located on multiple remote resources.About XRoads Networks, Inc. XRoads Networks, Inc. is the worldwide leader in Unified Bandwidth Management platforms. Deployed at over a thousand Fortune 500 companies, universities, and SMB organizations throughout the world, XRoads Networks provides a comprehensive bandwidth management and monitoring solutions for both corporate and branch office environments. More information about XRoads Networks is available at www.XRoadsNetworks.com or by calling +1-888-997-6237.XRoads Networks is the first company to deliver a fully integrated "bandwidth continuity" solution in its EdgeXOS platform, and is the inventor of triple A bandwidth management solutions, Accelibond, Adaptiband, and ActiveDNS, along with its XFlow and VPN Virtualization (Site2Site) technology.XRoads Networks, and the XRoads Networks logo are trademarks of XRoads Networks, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.