For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – July 16, 2013 – Stocks featured in this week’s Zacks Industry Rank analysis include Six Flags Entertainment (SIX-Free Report) and Cedar Fair (FUN-Free Report).Zacks Industry Rank Analysis is written by John Blank, PhD, Chief Equity Strategist, Zacks.com.Rollercoaster RevenuesQ2 earnings season is upon us.  Most of us are accustomed to the ups and downs of the market during this time.  While sometimes frightening, the thrill often brings us back for more.Herein lies the same theme, if you will, with theme park stocks. This is a seasonal industry.  Its revenue charts seem to replicate the very rollercoasters they’re known for.  A summer bounce across the recreational service sector may be primed by such amusements.
Reflecting this, the Leisure and Recreational Services Industry climbed +92 positions this week to sit at a Zack’s Industry Rank of #115 out of 259 industries. The industry demonstrated 14 positive earnings estimate revisions compared to 9 negative revisions, with an average positive Earnings per Share (EPS) surprise of +14%.
Several different attractions are included in this category, including movie theaters, concerts and cruise lines.  Looking closely revealed specific strength in amusement parks. And two well-known amusement park companies stood as tall as their rollercoasters.  Overcoming high price-to-earnings ratios, these two amusement park stocks seemingly have further to climb before the summer is over.
Both of the following businesses have been upgraded this week to a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). An upward lift in rank from a Buy or Hold to a Strong Buy signals a given stock may be on a path higher following future positive earnings estimate revisions. Researching these factors when devising your investment strategy can add additional understanding, both to the fundamental direction a company is taking, and the industry trends affecting similar businesses.  Theme-park operators have been revised upward in this fashion.  Both stocks also hold a long-term Zacks “Outperform” rating.
We encourage putting your hands in the air during the climb.  But remember: keep your eyes open for a drop.
Six Flags Entertainment (SIX-Free Report)
SIX was upgraded to a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) on July 12.  Its next expected earnings report is on July 22, 2013.
Six Flags Entertainment Corporation owns and operates regional parks comprised of theme, water and zoological parks offering rides, water attractions, concerts, shows, restaurants, game venues and retail outlets. The company holds long-term licenses for theme park usage throughout the United States, Canada, Mexico and other countries for certain Warner Bros. and DC Comics characters.  Drawing additional publicity this year, its theme park in Texas set a Guinness Record for tallest swing ride. Six Flags Magic Mountain in Los Angeles added “the world’s tallest and fastest looping coaster.”
SIX pays a hefty dividend of 4.9%. Their most recent quarterly earnings surprise was +19%.
Cedar Fair (FUN-Free Report)
FUN is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy).  It moved up from a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) just last week.  This company reports quarterly earnings on August 8, 2013.
Cedar Fair, L.P. and its affiliated companies own and operate five amusement parks: Cedar Point, Knott's Berry Farm, Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom, Valleyfair, and Worlds of Fun/Oceans of Fun.  The company also owns and operates four hotel facilities.  Finally, Cedar Point owns and operates the Cedar Point Marina, one of the largest full-service marinas on the Great Lakes.  The company recently reaffirmed 2013 guidance on earnings, based on positive early-season attendance and per-capita revenue.
FUN most recent earnings surprise was +24%.  This stock pays a hefty 5.9% dividend.Story continuesZacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of the industries and the stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=2564.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Len Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3:1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit From the Pros by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2565.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearchVisit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Contact: Terry Ruffolo Company: Zacks.com Phone: 312-265-9213 Email: pr@zacks.comVisit: www.Zacks.comRead the analyst report on SIX Read the analyst report on FUN Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read article on zacks.com