General Motors (GM) on Tuesday named Mary Barra, head of global product development and a 33-year company veteran, to become the first woman to run a major automaker when CEO Dan Akerson retires in January.The move is part of a broad management shuffle and comes a day after Treasury sold its last shares in the No. 1 U.S. automaker. The government lost $10.5 billion on its $49.5 billion GM bailout.Barra, who has been at GM her entire working life and is the daughter of a 39-year GM vet, has a reputation as someone with deep industry knowledge and savvy about car buyers' tastes. She oversaw the launch of a slew of new vehicles, including 18 models for 2013 and 14 for 2014."At General Motors I think I've got the best job on the field there, to be able to work on product all day long," Barra said of her current job heading production in a Bloomberg interview after being named CEO.Spearheaded StreamliningBarra is a good fit, according to UBS analyst Colin Langan."What's important for GM is her focus in product development was on streamlining costs. GM's continued success is going to depend on executing on that," Langan said.Barra has worked to align product development and purchasing and reduce the number of vehicle platforms and executives overseeing each model. Despite those efforts and the auto giant's revival from bankruptcy, GM remains less profitable and more complex than global rivals Toyota (TM) and Volkswagen (VLKAY).With government no longer an owner, GM is more likely to announce a dividend or buyback, "clearly a positive," Langan said.He has a buy rating on GM, with a 50 price target.GM shares fell 1% to 40.40 after hitting a record high Monday.Barra's experience shows in GM's recent rollouts, said Kelley Blue Book President Jared Rowe."GM brand had the largest increase in residual value of all brands this year," he noted.GM still faces big challenges, including a resurgent Ford (F) and strong overseas competition."It is an increasingly competitive global market. The auto industry overall has some incredibly great products," Rowe said.In September, Akerson hinted at Barra's naming. "Someday, there will be a Detroit Three that's run by a car gal," he said in comments quoted by Bloomberg.Big Executive ShakeupAkerson, 65, moved up his planned retirement by several months after his wife was recently diagnosed with an advanced stage of cancer, GM said.CFO Dan Ammann was named president, overseeing the Chevrolet and Cadillac brands.Mark Reuss, executive VP and president of North America operations, will follow Barra as head of global product development, purchasing and supply chain.Alan Batey, VP of global Chevrolet and U.S. sales and marketing, will take over Reuss' old job.The board named Theodore Solso, ex-chairman and CEO of truck engine maker Cummins (CMI), to succeed Akerson as chairman.Meanwhile, GM last week said it will end most Chevy sales in Europe to cut costs and to focus on promoting its Opel brand.A cut in South Korean production is also planned, and Australian production could cease.GM plans to invest $11 billion in China, the world's largest auto market. On Nov. 29 it named Matthew Tsien president of GM China.