eBay (EBAY) Q4 2013 Results Earnings Call January 22, 2014 5:00 PM ETExecutivesTom Hudson - VP, IRJohn Donahoe - President and CEORobert Swan - CFOAnalystsColin Sebastian - Robert BairdGil Luria - Wedbush SecuritiesHeath Terry - Goldman SachsStephen Ju - Credit SuisseSanjay Sakhrani - KBWMark May - CitiMark Mahaney - RBC Capital MarketsJustin Post - Bank of America Merrill LynchOperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to eBay's fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call. [Operator Instructions] It’s now my pleasure to turn the floor over to Tom Hudson, vice president of investor relations. Sir, the floor is yours.Tom HudsonGood afternoon. Thank you for joining us, and welcome to eBay's earnings release conference call for the fourth quarter and full year 2013. Joining me today on the call are John Donahoe, our president and chief executive officer; and Bob Swan, our chief financial officer. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany Bob and John’s commentary during the call. All growth rates mentioned in John and Bob's prepared remarks represent year-over-year comparisons unless they clarify otherwise.This conference call is also being broadcast on the Internet, and both the presentation and call are available through our Investor Relations section of the eBay website at http://investor.ebayinc.com. You can visit our investor relations website for the latest company news and updates. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.Before we begin, I'd like to remind you that during the course of this conference call, we will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our company's performance. You can find a reconciliation of those measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures in the slide presentation accompanying the conference call.In addition, management will make forward-looking statements related to our future performance that are based on our current expectations, forecasts, and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the first quarter and full year 2014, the company’s financial outlook for 2015, the future growth in the Payments, Marketplaces, and eBay Enterprise businesses, the company’s plans regarding share repurchase programs and the company’s plans for its payments business.Story continuesOur actual results may differ materially from those discussed in the call for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, changes in political, business, or economic conditions; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; our need to successfully react to the increasing importance of mobile payments and commerce and the increasingly social aspect of commerce; an increasingly competitive environment for our businesses with the complexity of managing an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses at different stages of maturity; our need to manage regulatory, tax, and litigation risks, including risks specific to PayPal and Bill Me Later; our need to timely upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure, and customer service capabilities at a reasonable cost while maintaining site stability and performance, in addition to adding new products and features; our ability to integrate, manage, and grow businesses recently acquired or that may be acquired itself; the effect of the announcement of the shareholder proposal [unintelligible] has on the company’s relationships with the shareholders; and the associated disruption of management and employees attention from the company’s ongoing business operations.You can find more information about factors that could affect our operating results in our most recent annual report or on our Form 10-K and our subsequent quarterly filings on Form 10-Q available at http://investor.ebayinc.com. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. All information in this presentation is as of January 22, 2014, and we do not intend and undertake no duty to update this information. With that, let me turn the call over to John.John DonahoeThanks, Tom. Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to our Q4 earnings call. The fourth quarter was a tough, competitive holiday season in retail. It was also a holiday season that tipped toward the future of commerce. Online, mobile, and other omnichannel commerce capabilities are clearly taking hold. Consumers are changing how they shop and pay, and retailers and brands are having to adapt.In this dynamic environment, we feel good about our performance for the quarter. We focused on what we control, leveraging our global commerce platforms in mobile leadership and strengthening our operating discipline and execution. And it paid off with a strong finish to a challenging year.Revenue was up 13% for the quarter, and non-GAAP EPS was up 16%, and eBay and Paypal both generated double digit user growth. We enabled $61 billion of commerce volume in Q4, up 22%, well ahead of ecommerce and retail overall. Our eBay Marketplace, Paypal, and eBay Enterprise platforms are clearly driving volume growth on behalf of our retailer, brand, and merchant partners.Mobile exceeded our expectations, continuing to lead new consumer shopping behaviors. For the full year, our total mobile-enabled commerce volume grew 88%, with eBay reaching $22 billion and Paypal hitting $27 billion of mobile payments volume. And we added more than 14 million new customers through mobile in 2013, 40% of our total new users.These results demonstrate why we believe strongly in the power of our portfolio to compete and lead in the new commerce environment, both in our core businesses and in the four competitive battlegrounds of mobile, local, global, and data.Now I’d like to step back for a minute and comment on the year. We drove 14% revenue growth and 15% earnings growth in 2013, and we feel good about that strong performance in a challenging environment. However, we anticipated accelerating second half growth, which did not materialize, so we ended the year at the lower end of our guidance.As we look forward to 2014 and beyond, the growth opportunities we spoke about last year are still very much there. As mobile continues to change commerce and blur the lines between online and offline, we have tremendous opportunities in the $10 trillion commerce market, a bigger addressable market for us.We will continue to compete aggressively across all of our businesses, and in 2014 we’re stepping up our investments, particularly in Paypal. We’ll take a very disciplined approach about how we make these investments, but we intend to capitalize on our strengths and seize the opportunities before us.Now I’m going to turn it over to Bob, who will provide more details on our fourth quarter and full year results and 2014 guidance. Then we’ll take a slightly different approach today. After Bob finishes, I’ll come back with some additional comments before we take questions. Bob?Robert Swan Thanks, John. During my discussion, I’ll reference our earnings slide presentation that accompanies the webcast. As the strategic partner of choice for merchants of all sizes, we enabled $61 billion of commerce volume at a take rate of 7.4% in the quarter. Our take rate declined 55 basis points, driven by business mix, as our fastest-growing business, Paypal, has a lower take rate.In Q4, we generated net revenues of $4.5 billion, up 13%. Organic revenue growth was also 13% in the quarter. Transaction revenue grew 14% and marketing services revenue grew 12%. Fourth quarter non-GAAP EPS was $0.81, up 16%. Non-GAAP operating margin was 29.2%, up 70 basis points, due primarily to solid top line growth and strong operating expense leverage. We generated free cash flow of $1.4 billion in the quarter. Capex was 6% of revenue, primarily due to investments in search, data, and site operations.Now let’s take a closer look at our segment results. Paypal had a strong quarter. Revenue reached $1.8 billion, up 20% on an FX-neutral basis. Revenue was driven by accelerating merchant services growth and solid growth on eBay.A few quick highlights on Paypal operational metrics. Total active accounts growth was 16%, with more than 30% of active accounts coming from eBay. TPV on an FX-neutral basis grew 25%. Paypal increased penetration on eBay by 175 basis points. Merchant services, FX-neutral TPV accelerated 1 point to 31% in the quarter, with particularly strong performance coming from large merchants. As of year-end, 70% of the U.S. internet retailer 100 and 63% of the E.U. internet retailer 100 had integrated Paypal.We launched a series of innovations on eBay Inc. properties leverage the synergies of the portfolio and improve the checkout process. Paypal mobile payment volume in the quarter was $8.8 billion, with 51% of mobile payments coming from eBay. Paypal segment margin came in at 25.7% for the quarter, up 270 basis points, due primarily to opex leverage, partially offset by a lower take rate from large merchant mix, losses on foreign currency hedges, and lower cross-currency transaction growth.Let me touch on a quick highlights for Bill Me Later. Bill Me Later had a good quarter, and is becoming an increasingly important component of our overall portfolio. We’re using the same playbook with Bill Me Later on eBay as we did with Paypal on eBay. BML’s penetration as a funding source in the Paypal wallet was 4.8% share on eBay in the U.S. and 2.5% on us merchant services.As we drive greater adoption on eBay, we are able to accelerate usage off of eBay, and BML gives consumers another funding choice and increased penetration helps lower Paypal’s transaction expense. We continue to finance the BML loan receivable portfolio primarily using offshore cash, and BML risk-adjusted margin continued to be at the high end of the 14% to 16% targeted range, while chargeoffs increased to 6.3%. The 90-day delinquency rate improved 30 basis points from last quarter. Overall, BML continues to perform well.Now let’s move to Marketplaces. Marketplaces had a good quarter, with net revenues of $2.3 billion, up 11% on an FX-neutral basis. A few quick highlights: active users grew 14%; FX-neutral non-vehicles GMV grew 12%, driven primarily by improvements in mobile and the customer experience; U.S. non-vehicles GMV grew 14% against tougher comps, and international non-vehicles GMV grew 10%.In the quarter, we completed the rollout of Cassini around the world; launched Collections, an inspirational experience for buyers; and rolled out in-store pickup in the U.K. and the U.S. Marketplaces segment margin was 41.1% in the quarter, at the upper end of our 38-42% guidance range we shared in March of last year. Segment margin was down 40 basis points from last year, primarily due to investments in trust and technology, partially offset by opex leverage.Now let’s turn to eBay Enterprise. eBay Enterprise generated $1.8 billion in merchandise sales for its clients and same-store sales grew 13% in the quarter. Revenue was $392 million, down 2%, driven by client mix, channel mix, and a lower take rate. Marketing services revenue growth was impacted by replatforming and branding efforts to consolidate nine companies into one.We continue to scale our new technology platform and now have nine clients that are live. We’ve continued to drive Paypal adoption on eBay Enterprise client sites, with 97% coverage and 17% share of checkout. Segment margins came in at 15.8%, down 450 basis points.Turning to operating expenses, in Q4, operating expenses were 40% of revenue, down 165 basis points. Operating expenses were down due mainly to lower sales and marketing from improved marketing efficiencies and a shift in spend to product and user experience. This were partially offset by an increase in provision for transaction loan losses resulting from investment in Marketplace’s trust initiatives and TPV growing faster than total company revenue.We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents, and nonequity investments of $12.8 billion, including approximately $3.2 billion in the U.S. We improved our financial flexibility, funding 68% of the BML loan receivables portfolio with offshore cash.In the quarter, we repurchased 4.9 million shares of our common stock for approximately $254 million. As a company, we generated $1.4 billion in free cash flow, and reinvested $1.1 billion of that to drive Paypal growth with the expansion of Bill Me Later and the acquisition of Braintree.So we’re now one year into the three-year journey we shared with you last March. We enabled $212 billion of commerce volume for merchants and consumers globally, up 21%. Mobile commerce volume was $35 billion, up 88%, well ahead of our three-year plan.Revenue grew 14%, non-GAAP EPS grew 15%, and we generated $3.7 billion in free cash flow. Not bad results. But as John indicated, not in line with our expectations as we delivered at the low end of our full year guidance, and we didn’t generate the monetization we had planned exiting 2013, giving us less momentum entering the new year, and making our 2015 aspirations more difficult to achieve.With that, a little context on our business outlook. We believe the opportunity in front of the company is huge, and we have the right portfolio of assets, and we will invest to win. Competition is increasing, and consumer expectations are rising, and we’re making the investments to expand or serve the market, both globally and locally.We are investing more across the business units in three key areas. First, the core. We’re increasing investments in sales and marketing, product experience, and trust. Secondly, omnichannel. We’re increasing investments in eBay Now, in-store pickup, ship from store, and Paypal ubiquity. And third, globally. We’re increasing investments in emerging markets and to drive cross-border trade. Paypal will have a disproportionate share of these investments in 2014.For the full year 2014, we expect revenue of $18 billion to $18.5 billion, representing growth of 12% to 15%. We anticipate non-GAAP EPS of $2.95 to $3.00, including approximately $0.03 from the Braintree acquisition, representing growth of 9% to 11%.We expect free cash flow to be $3.7 billion to $4 billion, and non-GAAP effective tax rate to be 18.5% to 19.5%, and capex to be 7% to 9% of revenue. We expect Marketplaces margins will be within the three-year range we shared in March of ’13, but that Paypal margins will be lower, as we continue to invest heavily to protect and extend our leadership position.For the first quarter 2014, we expect revenue of $4.15 billion to $4.25 billion, and non-GAAP EPS of $0.65 to $0.67. For the full year of 2015, we expect ECV to be greater than $300 billion, with mobile ECV growth of 65% plus over the three-year period, per year, but we expect monetization for our take rate to be lower and investments to be higher in Paypal.From a business unit perspective, versus the outlook we provided last March at analyst day, we expect Marketplaces to be below the range on revenue and in line with margin guidance. We expect Paypal to be in line with revenue guidance, but below the margin guidance as we boost investments, and we expect eBay Enterprise to be below revenue and margin guidance, as we continue to transition our clients to our new platform.For the full year 2015, we expect revenues of $20.5 billion to $21.5 billion, representing growth of 14% to 16%, and we expect non-GAAP EPS year over year growth of greater than 10%, and that free cash flow will be more than $11 billion from 2013 to 2015.We feel confident about our future outlook, and have received authorization for an additional $5 billion stock repurchase plan. Total repurchase authorization is now $5.6 billion, and we plan to make opportunistic repurchases of our common stock to reduce the outstanding share count.In summary, we saw the dramatic shifts in commerce, the blurrings of the line offline and online, the need for tighter linkage between commerce and payments, and strength of mobile. Our portfolio has been constructed to position us for these trends, to compete and win, and we’re going to lean into the opportunity.We believe our unique set of capabilities work best together to enable our partners’ success, and therefore our own. Our global footprint is expanding, our enabled commerce volume has accelerated, demonstrating that our commerce and payment platforms are growing in relevance to retailers of all sizes. We are investing for the long term, strengthening our core ecosystem, and are focused on key battlegrounds with mobile, local, global, and data.And now I’ll turn the call back over to John.John Donahoe Thanks, Bob. Before we move to questions, I want to take a few minutes to speak about the proposals we received from Carl Icahn. Mr. Icahn has proposed nominating two of its employees to our board of directors. He is also submitting a nonbinding proposal to spin off and separate Paypal.Our board and management team welcome the perspectives of all shareholders, and I spoke with Mr. Icahn briefly last week to hear his views. We are committed to enhancing value for all shareholders and will continue to pursue strategies we believe will enable us to achieve this objective.Our board’s nominating and governance committee will consider Mr. Icahn’s nomination of his employees in the ordinary course of business. Let me remind you that we have an exceptionally strong board, with a diverse group of highly qualified directors. In fact, we have a world-class board. Our directors have deep experience in the technology and financial services sectors and a track record of value creation. This is the standard by which all future candidates will be assessed.Our board and management team also evaluate the company’s strategic direction on a regular basis, so you won’t be surprised to hear that this is not a new idea. Rest assured that when we see a path that unlocks value, we pursue it. For example, in 2009 we divested Skype because synergies did not exist. This demonstrated our commitment to making rational decisions that are in the best long term interests of the company and our shareholders.Based on what we see today, we continue to believe that the company, our customers, and our shareholders are best served by keeping Paypal and eBay together. In short, we believe this is the best way to maximize shareholder value. Our board is unified in its view on this.Let me give you a little context as to why we believe this. For more than 18 years, our company has focused on enabling global commerce, connecting buyers and sellers, anytime, anywhere. It’s how we drive growth and create value. Payments is an essential part of commerce. Everyone loves to shop, no one loves to pay.So we focus on taking the friction out of paying. We strive to make it easy, safe, and secure. And we’re innovating to make payments a way to drive engagement and create more value for consumers and merchants.This is what we do, and we have been successful exactly because Paypal and eBay are together. It’s why we believe we are so well-positioned to lead in the blended worlds of online and offline commerce. No other payments competitor has achieved Paypal’s success, because no other competitor has a commerce platform like eBay.In fact, today we’re seeing more and more commerce and payments competitors trying to replicate the eBay and Paypal model. We’re seeing a convergence of commerce and payments businesses, not a separation.Paypal and eBay make sense together for many reasons. Let me highlight three that we believe are among the most important. First, eBay accelerates Paypal’s success. Second, eBay data makes Paypal smarter. And third, eBay funds Paypal’s growth. Let me provide a little more perspective on each.EBay accelerates Paypal’s success. From the beginning, Paypal has benefitted from signing up eBay customers with virtually zero acquisition costs. Over the past decade, tens of millions of customers Paypal acquired on eBay have helped fuel its growth off of eBay. Simply put, eBay and Paypal together create mutually reinforcing network effects.Mobile is the most recent example of this reinforcing network effect. Mobile is the single most important platform shift in the past decade, and Paypal’s success in mobile payments started on eBay. EBay’s customers were an important source of Paypal’s early mobile payments volume, helping Paypal gain traction quickly and become a mobile payments leader.Let me put some numbers to illustrate this. In 2010, Paypal generated approximately $600 million of mobile payments volume, 80% of which came from eBay mobile apps. In 2013, three short years later, Paypal’s mobile payment volume grew to $27 billion, both on and off eBay. That’s massive growth, a 45x increase in a three-year period and a leadership position in mobile payments. Success on eBay enables Paypal’s success off eBay.Second, eBay data makes Paypal smarter. Risk is Paypal’s secret sauce. Paypal’s risk management capabilities are a source of competitive advantage, and anyone who understands risk knows that more data makes you smarter. By providing closed loop global transaction data, eBay enhances Paypal’s world-class risk capabilities and its ability to [underwrite] both sides of a transaction. This is evidenced by Paypal’s loss rate of only 31 basis points on $180 billion of total payment volume. Why, in an era of big data, would we dramatically reduce the amount of data available to Paypal?And last but not least, eBay funds Paypal’s growth. EBay is a major contributor to Paypal’s profitability and expansion. For example, eBay represents approximately one-third of Paypal’s revenue and well over half of its profits. EBay continues to generate over 30% of Paypal’s new users at zero acquisition cost. And in 2013, eBay was the significant contributor to Paypal’s profit growth.EBay is also a significant source of low-cost capital for Paypal, fueling areas such as credit and acquisitions such as Braintree. The economic foundation provided by eBay gives Paypal the latitude to be more aggressive as it pursues opportunities off of eBay.Now, before I close, I want to comment about the risk of distraction. Separation may seem like a compelling concept at first blush, but when you separate two highly intertwined and highly performing businesses, it creates significant distraction and dissynergies. And at a time when competition is increasing and innovation is accelerating, we can’t afford distraction, so we believe that an unwavering focus on executing our strategies is the best way we will drive growth and create shareholder value.So to sum up, strong synergies have always existed between eBay and Paypal, and new synergies are driving new growth in areas such as mobile. If and when these and future synergies run their course, we’re committed to doing what’s best for the company and for shareholders over the long term. You can count on us.Today, we strongly believe that Paypal is more competitive, more agile, and ultimately more successful when combined with eBay. Paypal and eBay are best together. That’s what we and our board believe, and it’s why we believe our current approach is the best way to maximize shareholder value.Thanks, and now we’ll take your questions. Operator?Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with eBay Inc. CEO