VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Jan 22, 2014) -
Pyng Medical Corp. (TSX VENTURE:PYT) (the "Company") today announced that on January 21, 2014 it has granted a total of 150,000 options to purchase common shares of the Company to directors of the Company in accordance with the Company's stock option plan dated March 18, 2005, as amended and restated on March 5, 2008 and March 31, 2011. The options will expire four years from the date of grant and have an exercise price of $0.06 per common share. One-third of the options granted will vest every six months for a period of 18 months.The Company has determined that the exemptions from the various requirements of the TSX Venture Exchange Policies are available for the granting of these options.About Pyng Medical Corp.For more than 20 years, Pyng Medical Corp. has been engineering and marketing award-winning trauma and resuscitation products for front-line critical care personnel world-wide. Pyng's product portfolio includes innovative sternal intraosseous(sternal IO), pelvic stabilization and tourniquet devices specifically designed and customized for both the military and civilian markets. With growing markets in North America, Europe and Asia, Pyng develops user-preferred medical devices for use by hospital staff, emergency medical services and military forces worldwide.More information about Pyng is available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com under the Company's profile and on its website: www.pyng.com.Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulatory Service Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.Safe Harbour Statement; Forward-Looking Statements: This release may contain forward-looking statements based on management's expectations, estimates and projections. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about the Company's strategy for growth, product development, market position, expected expenditures and financial results are forward-looking statements. Some of the forward-looking statements may be identified by words like "expects", "anticipates", "plans", "intends", "projects", "indicates", and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Many factors, including those discussed more fully elsewhere in this release and in documents which may be filed with the British Columbia Securities Commission, the Alberta Securities Commission, the TSX Venture Exchange, as well as other USA Commissions, could cause results to differ materially from those stated. These factors include, but are not limited to changes in the laws, regulations, policies and economic conditions, including inflation, interest and foreign currency exchange rates, of countries in which the Company does business; competitive pressures; successful integration of structural changes, including restructuring plans, acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; cost of raw material, research and development of new products, including regulatory approval and market acceptance; and seasonality of sales in some products.