U.S. Bancorp (USB) Q4 2013 Earnings Call January 22, 2014 9:00 AM ETExecutivesJudy Murphy - Director, IRRichard Davis - Chairman, CEO, President, Chairman of Executive Committee, Member of Risk Management Committee, Chairman of U.S. Bank, CEO of U.S. Bank and President of U.S. BankAndy Cecere - Vice Chairman and CFOBill Parker - CCOAnalystsErika Najarian - Bank of AmericaBetsy Graseck - Morgan StanleyMoshe Orenbach - Credit SuisseMatt O’Conner - Georgia BankPaul Miller - FBRKen Usdin - JefferiesEric Wasserstrom - SunTrust Robinson HumphreyKeith Murray - ISIChris Mutascio - KBWSteve Scinicariello - UBSMike Mayo - CLSAMatt Burnell - Wells Fargo SecuritiesMarty Mosby - Guggenheim PartnersNancy Bush - NAB Research, LLCBrian Foran - Autonomous Research USAJohn McDonald - Sanford BernsteinKevin Barker - Compass PointOperatorWelcome to U.S. Bancorp's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. Following a review of the results by Richard Davis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Andy Cecere, U.S. Bancorp's Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, there will be a formal question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] This call will be recorded and available for replay beginning today at approximately noon EST through Wednesday, January 29, at 12:00 o’clock midnight EST. I will now turn the conference call over to Judy Murphy, Director of Investor Relations for U.S. Bancorp.Judy MurphyThank you, Tiffany, and good morning to everyone who has joined our call. Richard Davis, Andy Cecere and Bill Parker are here with me today to review US Bancorp's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results and to answer your questions. Richard and Andy will be referencing a slide presentation during our prepared remarks. A copy of this slide presentation as well as our earnings release and supplemental analyst schedules are available on our website at usbank.com. I would like to remind you that any forward-looking statements made during today's call are subject to risk and uncertainty. Factors that could materially change our current forward-looking assumptions are described on Page 2 of today's presentation, in our press release and in our Form 10-K and subsequent reports on file with the SEC.I will now turn the call over to Richard.Richard DavisThank you, Judy, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining our call. I'll begin with a few highlights from U.S. Bank's 2013 full year results on Page 3 of the presentation. U.S. Bancorp [reported] recorded net income of $5.8 billion for the full year of 2013 or $3 per diluted common share. We achieved industry leading profitability with a return on average asset of 1.65% and return on average common equity of 15.8% and efficiency ratio of 52.4%.Total average loans grew by 5.6% and average deposits grew a strong 6.3% year-over-year. Credit quality continued to improve at a 30.1% decline in net charge-offs and a 13.2% decrease in nonperforming assets excluding covered assets. Our capital position end of the year stronger with a Tier 1 common equity ratio of 9.4%, in total, we returned $4 billion or 71% of our 2013 earnings to our shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks.Turning to Slide 4 and our quarterly highlights, U.S. Bancorp reported net income of $1.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013 or $0.76% per diluted common share. Total average loans grew by year-over-year by 5.7% and as expected 1.5% or 6% annualized, on a linked-quarter basis. We experienced strong loan growth in total average -- strong growth in total average deposits of 5.4% over the prior year and 1.8%, or 7.2% annualized on a linked-quarter basis.Credit quality remained strong. Total net charge-offs decreased by 4.9% from the prior quarter, while total nonperforming assets declined, linked quarter by 7.9%. We continued to generate significant capital this quarter. Our common equity Tier 1 ratio estimated using the final Basel III capital regulations was 8.8% at December 31 and we returned 65% of our earnings to shareholders during the fourth quarter through dividends and the repurchase of 13 million shares of common stock.Slide 5 provides you with a 5-quarter history of our performance metrics, and they continue to be ranked among the best in the industry. Return on average assets in the fourth quarter was 1.62%, and return on average common equity was 15.4%.Moving over to the graph on the right, you can see that this quarter's net interest margin was 3.40% as anticipated a few basis points lower than the third quarter. Our efficiency ratio for the fourth quarter was 54.9%, higher than previous quarter due to the seasonally higher expenses and the impact of accounting presentation changes related to investments and tax advantage projects. These changes did not impact net income attributable to U.S. Bank and Andy will discuss them in more detail in a few minutes.As we have stated in the past, our goal is to maintain an efficiency ratio in the low 50s by continuing to manage expenses in relation to revenue trends, while continue to invest in and grow our businesses. And we do expect the efficiency ratio to return to the low 50s in 2014.Turning to Slide 6. The company reported total net revenue in the fourth quarter of $4.9 billion, a 4.4% decrease from the prior year and essentially equal to the third quarter. The decline in revenue year-over-year was largely driven by lower mortgage banking revenue as well as a decrease in net interest income. Linked quarter, a decrease in noninterest income driven again by lower mortgage banking revenue was offset by seasonally higher revenues in other business lines and an increase in net interest income.Average loan and deposit growth is summarized on Slide 7. Average total loans outstanding increased by over $12 billion or 5.7% year-over-year and 1.5% on a linked quarter basis. Overall, excluding covered loans, a run-off portfolio, average total loans grew by 7.3% year-over-year and 1.9% linked quarter.Once again, the increase in average loans outstanding was supported by strong growth in average total commercial loans, which grew by 7.8% year-over-year and 1.3% over the prior quarter. Total average commercial real estate also increased over the prior quarters, with an average loans growing by 6.7% year-over-year and 2.1% linked quarter.Residential real estate loans continue to show strong growth, 17.6% year-over-year and 3.2% over the prior quarter. Within the retail loan category average credit card loans and auto loans and leases were both high year-over-year and linked quarter while average home equity lines and loans continue to decline. The rate of decline in this category however has slowed considerably over the past few quarters.We continue to originate and renew new loans and lines for our customers, new originations excluding mortgage production plus new and renewed commitments totaled approximately $50 billion in the fourth quarter up 4% linked quarter. Total average revolving commercial and commercial real-estate commitments continue to grow at a faster rate than loans increasing year-over-year by 10.1% and 2.7% on a linked quarter basis. Line utilization edged down slightly again this quarter to approximately 23%.Total average deposits increased by over $13 billion or 5.4% over the same quarter of last year and by $4.5 billion or 7.2% annualized on a linked quarter basis. With growth in low cost interest checking, money market and savings deposits particularly strong on a year-over-year basis.Turning to slide eight, in credit quality. Total net charge-offs in the fourth quarter decreased by $16 million or 4.9% from the third quarter of 2013 while non-performing assets excluding covered assets decreased by $67 million or 3.6%. The ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding in the fourth quarter declined to 0.53% from 0.57% in the third quarter. During the fourth quarter we released $35 million of reserves, $5 million more than in the previous quarter and $10 million more in the fourth quarter of 2012.Given the mixed and quality of our portfolio we currently expect total non-performing assets to remain relatively stable in the first quarter of 2014, while we expect the level of net charge-offs to increase modestly in the first quarter of 2014, as commercial and commercial real-estate recoveries declined relative to the current quarter.Andy will now give you few more details about our fourth quarter results.Andy CecereThanks Richard. Slide 9 gives you a view of our fourth quarter 2013 results versus comparable time periods. Our diluted EPS was $0.76, was 5.6% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 and equal to the prior quarter.The key drivers of the Company’s fourth quarter earnings are summarized on slide 10. $36 million or 2.5% increase in net income year-over-year was primarily the result of lower producing for credit losses and well managed expense partially offset by lower net revenue.Non-interest income declined year-over-year by $50 million or 1.8%, the result of 2.3% increase in average earning assets which was more than offset by 15 basis point decrease in net interest margin. The $7.3 billion growth in average earning assets year-over-year included increases in average total loans and investment securities. Offsetting the portion of the growth in these categories was a $5.8 billion reduction in average loans held for sale reflecting lower mortgage origination activity versus the same quarter of last year and a $3.8 billion reduction in average other earning assets, primarily due to the reconsolidation of a number of community development entities in the third quarter of 2013.The net interest margin of 3.40% was 15 basis points slower than the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily due to lower rates on investment securities as well as growth in the portfolio and lower rates on loans partially offset by lower rates on deposits and a reduction in higher cost long-term debt. Non-interest income declined by $173 million or 7.4% year-over-year, primarily due to mortgage banking revenue, which reflected lower origination and sales revenue.Lower corporate payments revenue, products revenue the result of lower government related transactions also contributed to the decline. Government spending was down about 18% year-over-year. Growth in several free categories help to offset these unfavorable variances, including growth in retail payments, merchant processing, trust and investment management fees, deposit service charges, commercial products revenue and investment product fees.Non-interest expense declined modestly year-over-year by $4 million or 0.1%, the modest decrease was primarily the result of lower professional services expenses due to a reduction in mortgage servicing review related cost and the positive impact from an $80 million mortgage foreclosure related regulatory settlement accrual in the fourth quarter of 2012.These favorable variances were offset by higher benefits expense primarily pension related and higher tax advantage project cost, including the accounting presentation changes in the current quarter. In the fourth quarter we changed the presentation of some tax credit related items in our income statement. These changes were not significant and had no impact on EPS. The impact of the changes is shown on the chart on this slide.These changes in addition to our favorable conclusion on some state tax matters reduced the effective tax rate to 23.8% on a tax equivalent basis in the fourth quarter. This new presentation will continue in future periods. However in the first quarter of 2014 we also expect to adopt new accounting guidance recently issued by FASB, which will move non-interest expense on certain tax credit investments to tax expense. Including all of these changes, we expect our tax rate in 2014 to be about 29% on a tax equivalent basis.Net income was lower on a linked quarter basis by $12 million or 0.8% primarily as a result of seasonally higher expense partially offset by lower provision for credit losses. On a linked quarter basis, net interest income was higher as the $4.5 billion increase in average earning assets was only partially offset by a modest decline in the net interest margin. The increase in average earning assets was the result of growth in loans and securities partially offset by a reduction in average loans held for sale. The net interest margin of 3.40% was 3 basis points lower than the third quarter, primarily due to the growth in lower tax investments, lower rate investment securities as well as strong deposit growth, which resulted in higher cash balances at the [bank].On a linked quarter basis, non-interest income was lower by $21 million or 1%. Again, this unfavorable variance primarily reflected the decline in mortgage banking revenue as well as seasonally lower corporate [payments] revenue. Partially offsetting the decline in these revenue categories was an increase in retail payments, trust and investment management fees, commercial product revenue and other income.On a linked quarter basis, noninterest expense was up $117 million or 4.6%, driven by higher costs related to tax-advantaged projects including the accounting presentation changes, seasonally higher professional services expense and the timing of marketing and business development projects. Given normal first quarter seasonality and FASB's new accounting guidance related to tax credit investments, we expect first quarter 2014 expense to be similar to the third quarter of 2013.Turning to slide 11. Our capital position is strong and continues to grow. Based on our assessment of the final rules for the Basel III standardized approach, we estimate that our common equity tier 1 ratio at December 31st was 8.8%, up from 8.6% at September 30th. At 8.8%, we are well above the 7% Basel III minimum requirement and above our targeted ratio of 8%.In the fourth quarter, we returned 30% of our earnings to shareholders in the form of dividends and 35% through the repurchase of 30 million shares of stock for a total return of 65%. Our tangible book value per share rose to $14.41 at December 31st, representing an 11.9% increase over the same quarter of last year and a 4.3% increase over the prior quarter. In early January, we completed and submitted our 2014 capital plan to the Federal Reserve. We are now waiting for regulatory approval to raise our dividend and continue our stock buyback program in 2014.Finally, slide 12, provides updated detail on the company’s mortgage repurchase related expense and reserve for expected losses on the repurchases and make whole payments. The record warranties repurchase reserve was $83 million at December 31st compared with a $176 million at September 30th. The decline in the reserve reflected the December agreement with Freddie Mac that resolved substantially all repurchase obligations related to reps and warranties made on loans sold to Freddie Mac between 2000 and 2008. The $53 million settlement was reflected in net realized losses for the quarter.Now I’ll turn the call back to Richard.Richard DavisThanks Andy. I’m very proud of our 2013 results. We achieved record earnings while we manage through a challenging economic environment and a significant pullback in mortgage banking activities as well as in an environment of regulatory and legislative change and uncertainty.We continue to invest in our businesses throughout 2013, both organically and through acquisitions. For example, we added a small Municipal Bond Trustee business in March, strengthening our position as the number one provider to municipal trustee and agency services in United States. And in November, we announced the acquisition of Quintillion Limited an Ireland-based full service hedge-fund administrator, further expanding our alternative investment servicing network in Europe.And we began the New Year with an announcement of the purchase of the Chicago branch franchise owned by RBS Citizens Financial Group. This investment while nearly double our market share in this great market within our footprint strengthening our position and adding product, services and convenience for new and existing customers as well as value for our shareholders. These acquisitions, combined with our ongoing investments in innovative product enhancements, services and people has enabled us to continue to grow our balance sheet and our fee-based businesses and gain market share.U.S. Bank’s performance metrics continue to be best in class. We are focused on the future, building our company to perform as we have in the past, producing consistent, predictable, repeatable results for the benefit of our customers, our employees, our communities and our shareholders.That concludes our formal remarks. Andy, Bill and I would now be happy to answer questions from our audience.Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with U.S. Bancorp CEO