In this photo taken Friday, Oct. 4, 2013, Marcelo del Canto, right, a budget analyst for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, demonstrates during a rally against the government shut down during a federal union workers demonstration with congressmen outside of the U.S. Capitol in Washington. These days, many federal workers are frustrated, anxious and growing tired of being pawns in a never-ending political struggle over government funding. Both he and his federally-employed wife been furloughed and worry about making the next mortgage payment on a house they bought in March. (AP Photo/Jose Luis Magana)MoreWASHINGTON (AP) -- There was a time when being a federal employee meant a steady paycheck, great benefits and pride in serving the country.But these days, many federal workers are frustrated, anxious and growing tired of being pawns in a never-ending political struggle over government funding."The pay has fallen behind, the uncertainty of having a job from day to day, the stability which was a drawing factor for a large portion of the people is gone now," said Tommy Jackson, an Air Force acquisitions manager in Warner Robins, Ga., who has spent 30 years in government.Jackson, 54, is going through his second furlough of the year. He and his wife, Debbie, also a government employee, lost about $6,000 in wages this year when they were furloughed for six days each. Now the shutdown, and he said they are considering options to move into the private sector."That six-day furlough cost us a good bit of money," he said. "I'm sitting out right now, I don't know if it'll be for a day, a month or two months. I don't want to operate that way."Jackson spoke before the House voted 407-0 Saturday to reimburse federal workers for lost pay during the shutdown. The Senate has indicated that it will go along, and President Barack is expected to sign the bill.For many, working for the government has long been a ticket to a middle-class lifestyle. Federal jobs offered flexibility, security, solid health care and pensions. Raises and promotions were common. Whatever happened to the economy, Uncle Sam never went bankrupt or threatened to close down.But federal employees today are working under a three-year pay freeze. Earlier this year, many were furloughed when automatic spending cuts took hold. There are proposals in Congress to increase retirement contributions for government workers and politicians regularly lash out at federal workers as lazy, overpaid and unnecessary.For Marcelo del Canto, a budget analyst for the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in Rockville, Md., working for the government was supposed to be a respite from the ups and downs of the technology industry."I worked for some pretty big companies and a lot of these Internet companies that got hit by the dot com bust, so I went through a lot of bankruptcies, laying off workers," del Canto said. "My wife said 'You really need to get out of the private sector, the federal government is really the way to go.'"