CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwired - Jan 19, 2014) -
Enbridge Inc., (ENB.TO)(ENB) shut down and isolated its Line 67 pipeline south of Regina, Saskatchewan at approximately 10:50 a.m. MDT today after a release from the pumping station piping within the Rowatt Station.Immediately upon Enbridge's detection of the pumping station leak, the pipeline was shut down. An initial investigation has determined the release occurred within the facility, and that all free product was contained on site. Due to high winds, some spray landed on the snow of an adjacent farm field and has been picked up. All regulatory and provincial officials, including emergency response officials, have been notified and the source of the release has been contained.The pumping station has been isolated and Line 67 was restarted just before 9:20 p.m. MDT. An investigation into the incident is also being conducted by Enbridge and regulators. We are committed to the goal of reaching zero spills, and will thoroughly investigate the incident for lessons learned.Initial estimates place the volume of the release at up to 125 barrels. There is no impact to the public, wildlife or waterways. Enbridge first responders with clean-up and response equipment are on-site, and expect the cleanup to be completed this weekend.Line 67 is a 450,000 bbl/day, 36" heavy oil line that is part of the Enbridge Mainline from Hardisty to Superior.About Enbridge Inc.Enbridge Inc., a Canadian Company, is a North American leader in delivering energy and has been included on the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World ranking for the past five years. As a transporter of energy, Enbridge operates, in Canada and the U.S., the world's longest crude oil and liquids transportation system. The Company also has a significant and growing involvement in natural gas gathering, transmission and midstream businesses, and an increasing involvement in power transmission. As a distributor of energy, Enbridge owns and operates Canada's largest natural gas distribution company, and provides distribution services in Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and New York State. As a generator of energy, Enbridge has interests in 1,700 megawatts of renewable and alternative energy generating capacity and is expanding its interests in wind and solar energy and geothermal. Enbridge employs more than 10,000 people, primarily in Canada and the U.S. and is ranked as one of Canada's Greenest Employers and one of Canada's Top 100 Employers for 2013. Enbridge's common shares trade on the Toronto and New York stock exchanges under the symbol ENB. For more information, visit www.enbridge.com. Certain information provided in this news release constitutes forward-looking statements. The words "anticipate", "expect", "project", "estimate", "forecast" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Although Enbridge believes that these statements are based on information and assumptions which are current, reasonable and complete, these statements are necessarily subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties pertaining to operating performance, regulatory parameters, weather, economic conditions and commodity prices. You can find a discussion of those risks and uncertainties in our Canadian securities filings and American SEC filings. While Enbridge makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary significantly from those expected. Except as may be required by applicable securities laws, Enbridge assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements made herein or otherwise, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.