VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Mar 17, 2014) -
Camino Minerals Corp. ("Camino" or the "Company") (TSX VENTURE:COR) has received and accepted the resignation of Gordon J. Bogden as a Director of the Company, a role he has held since February 2010, in order to devote more time to his current business activities as CEO of Avanti Mining Corporation. Gordon Davis, CEO and Chairman of Camino commented, "Gord Bogden first joined the board of our predecessor company, Canplats Resources Corp. ("Canplats"), in 2008 and served until it was acquired by Goldcorp Inc. and subsequently joined the board of Camino in 2010. Gord's investment banking background proved invaluable in the closing of the Canplats/Goldcorp transaction. On behalf of shareholders, I thank Gord for his many contributions," Mr. Davis commented.Commenting on his resignation, Mr. Bogden said, "I have enjoyed serving as a director of both Canplats and Camino, and working with the highly professional Canplats/Camino team."About Camino Minerals CorporationCamino is a discovery-oriented mineral exploration company formed in connection with Goldcorp's C$300-million acquisition of Canplats. The Company is led by Canplats' former management and is focused on precious and base metal projects located in Mexico. For more information on Camino's projects, please refer to the Company's website at www.caminominerals.comTo receive Camino's news releases, contact Blaine Monaghan, V.P., Corporate Development, at info@caminominerals.com or (866) 338-0047. Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsStatements contained in this news release that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and forward-looking information under the provisions of Canadian securities laws (collectively, "forward-looking statements"). Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from estimated results. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the company's ability to raise sufficient capital to fund exploration, changes in economic conditions or financial markets, changes in prices for the company's mineral products or increases in input costs, litigation, legislative, environmental and other judicial, regulatory, political and competitive developments in Mexico, technological and operational difficulties or inability to obtain permits encountered in connection with exploration and development activities, labour relations matters, and changing foreign exchange rates, all of which are described more fully in Camino's filings on SEDAR. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or other factors, except as required by law. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.