For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 18, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Home Loan Servicing Solutions (HLSS), Javelin Mortgage Investment Corp. (JMI), Nationstar Mortgage Holdings, Inc. (NSM), PHH Corp. (PHH) and Walker & Dunlop, LLC (WD).Today, Zacks is promoting Four daily picks are offered free. Here are highlights from Friday’s Analyst Blog: A Hot Niche in Finance This week, I have been reading a lot of comments -- from Zacks strategists and subscribers alike -- about the Financial Sector. That is, how to play it, if there is any coming earnings and estimate revision strength, etc. etc.
I looked into the top-down Zacks Industries.  Lo and behold, the very top-ranked Zacks Industry, ranked number 1 out of 265 groups, up +1 over the last week, and with a solid eight companies in it, is Finance-Mortgage and Related Servicers.Here are the Zacks Rank #1 mortgage finance and servicing companies available to investors.  Two are small cap companies that offer sizable yields (6.6% and 13.9%).
Small Mortgage REITs
Home Loan Servicing Solutions (HLSS), Zacks Rank #1, Outperform, Small Cap Value, $607M Market Cap, 6.6% Yield.
HLSS focuses on acquiring mortgage-servicing assets consisting of mortgage servicing rights, rights to mortgage servicing rights, associated servicing advances and other related assets. It intends to engage residential mortgage loan servicers to service the pools of mortgage loans underlying the mortgage servicing rights. Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd. is based in George Town, Cayman Islands.
Javelin Mortgage Investment Corp. (JMI) Zacks Rank #2, recently #1, no rating, $149M Market Cap. 13.9% Yield, REIT, Small Cap.
JMI invests and manages a leveraged portfolio of agency mortgage-backed securities, non-agency mortgage-backed securities and other mortgage-related investments. It invests primarily in hybrid adjustable rate, adjustable rate and fixed rate Agency RMBS and non-Agency RMBS.The company has elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 2012. Javelin Mortgage Investment Corp is based in Vero Beach, United States.
Large and Mid Cap Mortgage Originators and Servicers
Nationstar Mortgage Holdings, Inc. (NSM), Zacks Rank #1 and Outperform, $3.6B Market Cap, 0.0% Yield. Large Cap Growth
NSM is a mortgage lender. It services loans throughout the United States and originates primarily conventional agency and government residential mortgage loans and also offers a diverse array of complementary services for mortgage investors. Nationstar Mortgage Holdings, Inc. is headquartered in Lewisville, Texas.
PHH Corp. (PHH) Zacks Rank #1, Outperform. $2.6B Market Cap. Mid Cap Value
PHH is a leading outsource provider of mortgage and vehicle fleet management services. It is the sixth largest retail originator of residential mortgages in the United States and the second largest fleet management services provider in the United States and Canada.
Multi-Family Lending
Walker & Dunlop, LLC (WD) Zacks Rank #1, Outperform, 0.0% Yield, $658 Market Cap, Small Cap Value
WD is engaged in providing commercial real estate financial services in the United States, with a primary focus on multifamily lending. The Company also offers service loans for life insurance companies, commercial banks and other institutional investors as a loan broker. The Multifamily and FHA Finance groups of Walker & Dunlop are focused on lending to property owners, investors, and developers of multifamily properties across the country.
The Capital Markets and Investment Services groups provide a broad range of advisory, financing, investment consulting and related services. Walker & Dunlop's Healthcare Finance group provides debt financing for healthcare properties.The Company's Principle Investments include origination, underwriting, execution and management of commercial real estate opportunities across property types and geographies within the continental United States. Walker & Dunlop, LLC is based in Bethesda, Maryland.Story continuesToday, Zacks is promoting Four daily picks are offered free.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978. The later formation of the Zacks Rank, a proprietary stock picking system; continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsMedia Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comPast performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is `being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.   Read the analyst report on HLSS Read the analyst report on JMI Read the analyst report on NSM Read the analyst report on PHH Read the analyst report on WD Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on HLSS,JMI,NSM,PHH,WD