For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 18, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Intel Corp. (INTC), TRW Automotive Holdings Corp. (TRW), Ford Motors Company (F), General Motors Company (GM) and Volkswagen AG (VLKAY).Today, Zacks is promoting Four daily picks are offered free. Here are highlights from Friday’s Analyst Blog: Intel Excited to Show Earnings BeatWell, if you waited until after normal Thursday trading to catch Intel Corp's (INTC) Q4 earnings report, you missed it. The chip giant and Dow component generated another positive earnings surprise after the bell -- er, just before the bell -- by posting EPS of 48 cents per quarter on $13.53 billion in revenues. Both numbers beat expectations.
They didn't beat the Zacks Consensus Estimates of 45 cents and $13.2 billion, respectively, by a heck of a lot, but this is pretty much besides the point. Not only have we seen Intel lose out to competitors in the smartphone chipset market over past quarters, but Windows 8 failed to give traction to the PC market in the quarter, which is where Intel remains a leader.
Oh, and don't forget the pre-earnings sentiment that Tech was going down the tubes. Intel becomes the latest in a growing group of Tech beats this quarter.
Let's also not lose sight of the fact that Intel has outperformed for the last 5 quarters in a row -- including Q3's very nice 20% beat -- by an average of roughly 8%. Not bad for a dinosaur.TRW’s New Tech in Chrysler TrucksTRW Automotive Holdings Corp. (TRW) has introduced the Passive Entry system in Chrysler's new 2013 Ram trucks. This system will offer vehicle owners a greater level of convenience than traditional Remote Keyless Entry (:RKE) systems.
With this launch, the company will be able to offer its Radio Frequency products to customers with enhanced value and features, while integrating the entry system functional control into a single electronic control unit.
The Passive Entry system, which is commercialized under the name Keyless Enter 'n Go, operates by automatically unlocking the vehicle doors with the detection of key-fob around the proximity of the vehicle. There is no need for pressing any button for this technology.
The other advantages available with this technology are lighting of the interior of the vehicle during the night and starting the engine by pressing a start/stop button. Moreover, it also alerts the driver if the key fob is left in the car while the engine is still running.
Key fobs store vehicle data including mileage, tire pressure, vehicle service information and navigation map information. It also stores personal settings for interior features including seat and mirror positions, radio and air conditioning.
TRW reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.24 in the third quarter of 2012, down 9.5% from $1.37 in the year-ago quarter. The year-over-year decline in earnings was attributable to higher effective tax rate. However, earnings surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 8 cents per share.
Revenues in the quarter edged up 1.3% to $3.96 billion, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $3.90 billion. The increase was driven by higher demand for the company’s active and passive safety products, higher vehicle production in North America and improved global sales. This was partially offset by lower vehicle production in Europe and adverse currency translation effects.
TRW Automotive is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of advanced technology products and services for the automotive market. Together with continuous research and development, the company is well positioned to benefit from the changing demands of both established and emerging markets for advanced and affordable safety solutions.
The major customers of TRW include Ford Motor Co. (F), General Motors Company (GM) and Volkswagen AG (VLKAY). Currently, the company retains a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). Today, Zacks is promoting Four daily picks are offered free. About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Story continuesContinuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978. The later formation of the Zacks Rank, a proprietary stock picking system; continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsMedia Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comPast performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is `being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.   Read the analyst report on INTC Read the analyst report on TRW Read the analyst report on F Read the analyst report on GM Read the analyst report on VLKAY Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on INTC,TRW,F,GM,VLKAY