Kraton Performance Polymers, Inc. (KRA) has announced its plans to showcase its Cariflex polyisoprene products and Kraton ERS polymers at the MD&M West trade show. The show will be held at the Anaheim Convention Center, in Anaheim, Calif. in February 2013.
The Cariflex polyisoprene products are an alternative to natural rubber. Kraton will demonstrate how these products are better alternative to natural rubber and are suitable for applications that require extreme purity, exceptional protection, comfort, and consistently high quality. Cariflex products are also used in medical markets, where they act as a substitute for natural rubber. They protect the physicians, nurses, and patients from the natural rubber proteins, which are present in natural rubber, thus saving them from the risk of Type I allergic reactions.
Kraton’s ERS product line is an alternative to Polyvinyl chloride (:PVC) in medical applications. These products are extremely pure and durable and also display low extractable performance, which is at par with the medical industry standards.  They also provide a phthalate-free and plasticizer-free formulation that do not disrupt the environment, but maintain the quality of the finished product.
Kraton is a leading global producer of engineered polymers used to enhance the performance of products.  The company also invented styrenic block copolymer (:SBC) chemistry and its portfolio also consists of value-enhancing polymers that are used in a wide variety of applications.
Kraton released its third-quarter 2012 results in October 2012. The company posted a net loss of 48 cents per share compared with a profit of $1.33 per share in the year-ago quarter. The results include impairment charges and the impact related to changes in the company’s valuation allowance. Revenues decreased 14.8% year over year to $342.6 million in the quarter.
Kraton currently retains a short-term Zacks Rank #4 (Sell). PolyOne Corporation (POL), which also belongs to the specialty chemical industry, also holds a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell).Read the Full Research Report on POLRead the Full Research Report on KRA Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on POL,KRA