BOULDER, CO--(Marketwired - June 21, 2013) -
Ajubeo, a national provider of high-performance virtual datacenters and cloud infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS), today announced that its co-founder and CTO, Tom Whitcomb, was selected as the 2013 CIO of the Year award honoree by the Colorado Chapter of the Society for Information Management (SIM) and the Denver Business Journal.Mr. Whitcomb was joined by Colorado State CIO Kristin Russell, Dish Network SVP and CIO Mike McClaskey, and SquareTwo Financial SVP and CIO William Weeks as the four category winners of the 2013 Colorado SIM CIO of the Year Awards. Honorees were selected by a panel of IT executive peers from around Colorado at the awards luncheon on June 20, 2013 at the Four Seasons Denver.As co-founder and CTO of Ajubeo, Mr. Whitcomb is responsible for all information technology, innovation, and product development initiatives including the management of a team of cloud experts selected to play specific, strategic roles in the optimization of Ajubeo's cloud infrastructure-as-a-service. Mr. Whitcomb was selected in part due to Ajubeo's 100% uptime track record since launch, ultra-low-latency sub-millisecond delivery, and 200% higher-performing platform at half the cost when compared to market-share-leaders such as Amazon Web Services."I am honored to receive this recognition and would like to thank Colorado SIM, the Denver Business Journal, and my IT executive peers for their consideration," said Whitcomb. "When Chuck Price and I started Ajubeo in 2011, our vision was to deliver a unified cloud infrastructure platform that IT personnel would build in their ideal scenario, a cloud built 'By CIOs for CIOs.' Fast forward to today and the story is resonating. The platform is outperforming expectations. The company is growing at an incredible pace. None of this would be possible without every Ajubeo team member's contributions, going above and beyond to make the vision a reality. This award is the manifestation of that total team effort."Chuck Price, co-founder, president and CEO of Ajubeo, commented, "Tom is well-deserving of this accolade. He has sacrificed greatly to ensure the success of this organization and demonstrates incredible expertise and capability with an attitude of humility that you just don't see any more. Tom is the type of leader we all aspire to be, respected by his peers and direct reports for having the courage and willingness to join the battle on the front lines while having the experience and wherewithal to stay focused on the high-level executive goals that keep Ajubeo on such as incredible growth trajectory. It has been a pleasure to work alongside Tom for many years now and it brings me great joy to see him recognized for a job well done."Ajubeo is a pure-play, cloud infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) provider offering high-performance cloud computing and storage services via Virtual Datacenters (public, hybrid & private) with a 100% uptime track record to date. These off-premises, software-defined datacenter (SDDC) solutions, all managed via the MyAjubeo online portal from any secure Internet connection in the world, feature advanced cloud monitoring, networking and security services, cloud-based disaster recovery and business continuity services, and tiered enterprise virtual desktop (VDI) services. Ajubeo's diverse cloud partner program includes referral partners, master agents, and managed IT service providers including private label Ajubeo IaaS resellers.Please visit ow.ly/meWnm to view a slide show honoring the four award winners, provided courtesy of the Denver Business Journal and Colorado SIM.Follow Ajubeo online via Twitter (www.twitter.com/Ajubeo), Facebook (www.facebook.com/Ajubeo), or LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com/company/ajubeo).ABOUT AJUBEO Ajubeo is a national provider of high-performance, enterprise-class cloud infrastructure-as-a-service, founded and built by CIOs for CIOs. The Ajubeo IaaS offering includes virtual datacenters, virtual desktops, cloud-based disaster recovery, cloud-based data backup and restore, and cloud-based systems and application monitoring. Discerning organizations select Ajubeo for the increased business and architectural agility that comes from flexible, high-performance cloud infrastructure built to handle the scale, integration and compliance of today's enterprise. Ajubeo backs its cloud services with a 100% SLA and corporate commitment to customer satisfaction. Cloud hubs are deployed in the world's most reliable and interconnected carrier-neutral datacenters, accessible via secure, private network connections from anywhere in the world. For more information, please visit www.Ajubeo.com.Story continuesABOUT SOCIETY FOR INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (SIM) The Society for Information Management (SIM) is a not-for-profit organization of information technology experts, including CIOs, CTOs and emerging IT leaders, as well as key professionals within the IT community, such as academicians and consultants. SIM's mission is to support IT leaders in the greater Colorado area by increasing the knowledge base of members, giving back to local communities, increasing awareness on issues of importance to our local community, developing the next generation of effective IT leaders and establishing a forum to bring together IT professionals across industries.Denver Business Journal, Dish Network, SquareTwo Financial, Amazon Web Services, Society for Information Management, and Four Seasons are registered trademarks in the United States and/or other countries.