NEW YORK (TheStreet) --
Saul Centers
was downgraded to sell at TheStreet Ratings.
Allergan
was downgraded at Goldman Sachs. Valuation call, based on a $110 price target, Goldman said.
Big Lots
was downgraded to hold at TheStreet Ratings.
CH Robinson
was downgraded at Goldman Sachs to sell from neutral. $56 price target. Light truck names should lag the broader group, Goldman said.
Facebook
was upgraded at UBS to buy from neutral. Price target goes to $30. Current valuation is low and new monetization efforts are encouraging, UBS said.
Forest Laboratories
was upgraded at Goldman Sachs to buy from neutral. $50 price target. See a higher potential for management to explore strategic options, Goldman said.
Fulton Financial
was downgraded at Credit Suisse to underperform from neutral. $9.50 price target. Expect negative revisions to mortgage banking estimates, Credit Suisse said.
Also see: The 5 Dumbest Things on Wall Street>>
Kimberly-Clark
was upgraded at BMO Capital Markets to market perform from underperform. Valuation call, based on a $96 price target, BMO Capital Markets said.
Medicines Company
was downgraded at Oppenheimer to perform from outperform. New analyst believes the stock is fully valued, Oppenheimer said.
Netgear
was upgraded at Wedbush to outperform from neutral. $38 price target. Company has potential catalysts for the second half and 2014, Wedbush said.
Questcor
was downgraded at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch to neutral from buy. $51 price target. Acthar could face increased competition, BofA/Merrill said.
Also see: It's Time to Believe in Ciena>>
Questcor was upgraded at Oppenheimer to outperform from perform. $57 price target. New analyst believes that Acthar can drive near-term growth, Oppenheimer said.
Southern Company
was upgraded at Citigroup to buy from neutral. The GP rate case will be manageable, and Vogtle cost overruns do not present a structural issue, Citi said.
SPX
was downgraded at Citigroup to sell from neutral. Price target is $68. There is significant second half earnings risk and valuation is elevated, Citigroup said.
Total System
was upgraded to outperform at Wells Fargo. Company shows unanticipated FCF growth and trades at a cheap multiple, Wells Fargo said.
Wendy's
was initiated with a market perform rating at Wells Fargo. Company shows low EV/EBITDA relative its peers, but is inhibited by less-than-expected margin expansion, Wells Fargo said.
STOCK COMMENTS/EPS CHANGES
FirstMerit
numbers were raised at UBS. Estimates were increased to reflect the earlier-than-expected closing of the CRBC acquisition, said UBS. Price target goes to $22.
Corning
numbers were reduced at UBS. Reflect LCD panel price declines and volume reductions, said UBS. Price target goes to $16.50.
Oracle
numbers were reduced at UBS. Earnings estimates were cut given a weak macro and concerns about the shift to the cloud and sales execution, said UBS. Price target goes to $37.
Oracle estimates were cut at Citigroup. Earnings estimates were reduced given macro weakness, said Citigroup. Price target remains $38.
Also see: The Return of the 10% Down Payment>>
Oracle estimates, price target were reduced at Oppenheimer. Shares are now seen reaching $37. Estimates were also cut, as the company is not executing well, Oppenheimer said. Outperform rating.
Supervalu
numbers were raised at Citigroup. Opportunity for cost savings and SG&A leverage, said Citigroup. Price target goes to $7.
>To submit a news tip, email: tips@thestreet.com.
Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.
EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.5 Coolest 2013 Cars under $18,000Apple TV Gets a Major Upgrade (Update 1)5 Housing Markets Where You'll Break Even Fast When You Buy