SCOTTSDALE, AZ--(Marketwired - Jun 21, 2013) -  Beamz Interactive, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BZIC ), an emerging growth technology company specializing in state-of-the-art interactive music products, today announced the publication of a new online investor fact sheet."Consistent with our efforts to be as transparent as possible and to effectively keep the investing public apprised of our recent developments and successes, we are pleased to release our new investor fact sheet," said Charlie Mollo, President and CEO of Beamz Interactive. "On the heels of our major announcements this week with Flo Rida, the investor fact sheet is an easy to understand description of the enormous market opportunity for Beamz, especially as we launch a comprehensive awareness campaign for our new 'Beamz by Flo Rida' product line."The investor fact sheet provides a clear overview of the Beamz business model and the company's growth potential, and is a great resource for both existing shareholders and prospective investors alike.The Beamz investor fact sheet can be viewed and downloaded by navigating to:
http://www.trilogy-capital.com/autoir/bzic_autoir.htmlAbout Beamz Interactive, Inc.Based in Scottsdale, AZ, Beamz Interactive, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BZIC ) has created state-of-the-art interactive laser controller technology that can be used to develop new market opportunities in a wide variety of music, education, healthcare, gaming and consumer applications. In its first application, the Company developed an innovative new music technology and product offering that brings music to literally everyone in a way that was previously not possible. Beamz allows people that have no musical background or training to play and enjoy music within minutes, yet it has the depth to enable accomplished DJs, artists and musicians to perform, compose and create highly sophisticated interactive music. Beamz Interactive's technology portfolio includes multiple patents, patents pending and trade secrets covering interactive music, software, laser-based controllers, gaming applications and related designs and devices. For more information on Beamz, please visit: www.thebeamz.com.Follow Beamz on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.For comprehensive investor relations material, including fact sheets, multimedia resources, and videos regarding Beamz, please follow the appropriate link: Investor Portal, Beamz Product Video, and Investor Fact Sheet.Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's current expectations and projections about future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to the Company and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those discussed in the Company's periodic reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on its website (www.sec.gov). All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Other than as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update publicly or to revise these forward-looking statements.