VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Jun 21, 2013) -
Davis LLP, a full-service business law firm, is pleased to announce it has received the Canadian Rising Star award at the 2013 International Legal Alliance Summit & Awards. Marc Philibert, Montréal Office Managing Partner, and Pablo Guzman, Montréal Partner, accepted the award on behalf of the firm at the ceremony held on June 20, 2013 in New York City."We are a client-focused firm and our measure of success is our clients' satisfaction with the service we provide. However, recognitions such as this encourage us to consistently perform better," says Rob Seidel, Firm Managing Partner of Davis LLP. "We are pleased and honoured by this distinction since it reinforces the firm's efforts in providing top-notch and outstanding legal service to our clients in Canada and around the world."Davis LLP has been expanding its presence inside and outside of Canada through strategic recruitment and alliances. The combined experience and expertise of the firm's prominent lawyers strengthens its capabilities in delivering exceptional service, an indication of its continuous commitment to provide comprehensive services to clients.The International Legal Awards recognize the best law firms in each domestic market for their excellent results through the year, lasting performance in management and leadership, and their ability to innovate and to find new solutions while fine-tuning the highest standards of excellence. Twenty-five specialist jury panels, with over 100 General Counsels in total, elect the winners of each category. The Summit also provides law firms across the world with the opportunity to meet with international companies, network with current clients, create new relationships and recognize the top law firms in Europe, Asia, Africa, and the Americas.About Davis LLPDavis LLP is a full-service national law firm with over 250 lawyers across Canada and in Tokyo, Japan1. The firm has well-known and respected capabilities in core legal services, and is a leader in a number of niche markets. Davis LLP is described by Chambers Global as "a lean outfit that punches above its weight". The firm acts for Canadian and international clients, and is often involved in complex matters with an international dimension.1 Through its associate office, Davis & Takahashi.