NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jun 21, 2013) - Maxim Group LLC, a leading full service investment banking, securities and wealth management firm announced the appointment of Frank Magnani as Managing Director - Global Prime Brokerage Sales.Mr. Magnani's appointment is part of a continuing expansion initiative announced last year which targets key growth opportunities for the firm. "We are excited to have Frank join our team as he brings a wealth of experience, strong client relationships and a solid work ethic which will support the continued growth of Maxim's Prime Brokerage Platform," said Seth Michaels, Managing Director and head of Prime Brokerage Services.Mr. Magnani is an accomplished sales executive with a proven track record in prime brokerage sales, marketing, and branding within the financial services sector in the United States and abroad. He has founded and launched three prime brokerage services divisions within established broker dealers and was instrumental in building the sales and operational infrastructure. His prior experience included directing correspondent clearing sales, corporate marketing, advertising, and public relations for the Investec Group USA, as well as managing on-site the American Stock Exchange European office in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Mr. Magnani's focus at Maxim is to expand the prime brokerage client base of hedge funds, trading groups, advisors, and family offices.About Maxim Group LLC
Maxim Group LLC is a full-service investment banking firm headquartered in New York. Maxim Group provides a full array of financial services including investment banking; private wealth management; and global institutional equity, fixed-income and derivatives sales and trading as well as equity research. The investment banking group focuses on middle market and emerging growth companies within the shipping, energy, health care, technology, retail, and business and financial services sectors. The institutional coverage of Maxim Group spans North and South America, Europe and Asia. Maxim Group LLC is a registered as a broker-dealer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is a member of the following: Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA); Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB); Securities Insurance Protection Corporation (SIPC); NASDAQ Stock Market and the NYSE Arca, Inc. To learn more about Maxim Group, visit www.maximgrp.com.