For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – June 21, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include The Boeing Company (BA-Free Report), Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY-Free Report), United Continental Holdings, Inc. (UAL-Free Report), Air Lease Corporation (AL-Free Report) and General Electric Company (GE-Free Report).Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the Day pick for free. Here are highlights from Thursday’s Analyst Blog: Boeing Lands More Orders in Paris The Boeing Company (BA-Free Report) has received a firm order from Irish low-cost carrier Ryanair Holdings plc (RYAAY-Free Report) to deliver 175 Next-Generation 737-800 airplanes at the Paris Air Show. This order, originally announced as a commitment in March, is worth $15.6 billion at list prices. This marks Boeing's largest European sale to date.
Boeing has a long-standing alliance with Ryanair and aims to meet its commitments in terms of maintaining product standard along with delivery timing. Ryanair is one of the major operators of the 737-800 airplanes, having 300 aircraft currently. The airline took delivery of its first 737-800 airplane from Boeing in 1999 and aims to boost its fleet size to more than 400 aircraft with a capacity to serve over 100 million customers across Europe every year.
The Boeing Next-Generation 737-800 airplanes came into service on Sep 5, 1994. This model continues to be a pillar of strength for Boeing in the commercial airplane sector. Steady demand for this model is primarily driven by fuel efficiency and lower operating costs as compared to other models. The single-aisle aircraft can accommodate 162-189 passengers and can fly approximately 3,000 nautical miles (3,452.3 miles).
Ryanair is also working on another order comprising about 200 Boeing 737-MAX jets. The deal is likely to be sealed within a year and has a potential value of around $20 billion at list prices.
Meanwhile, the commercial aircraft manufacturer has clinched a deal with aircraft leasing company CIT Aerospace for 30 of its new generation 737-MAX 8 jets. The contract brings to the fore the popularity of the fuel-efficient short-haul aircraft at the Paris Air Show. The 737-MAX 8 planes have a list price of $100.5 million.
The 737 MAX uses technologically advanced CFM International LEAP-1B engines helping to deliver the highest efficiency, reliability and passenger comfort in the single-aisle market. Airlines that operate the 737 MAX will witness a 13% fuel-use improvement over most fuel-efficient single-aisle airplanes today. It also has an 8% operating cost per seat advantage over tomorrow's competition. First deliveries of the MAX are expected in 2017.
The Paris Show has definitely brought in big orders for Boeing. The company has also sealed a deal with Oman Air for five Boeing Next-Generation 737-900ER airplanes. The order is worth of $473 million at current list prices.
The 737-900ER provides all the benefits of the Next-Generation 737 family with greater seating capacity. This deal makes Oman Air a leading customer in the Arabian Gulf region to order 737-900ERs. Presently, the airline operates 15 Boeing Next-Generation 737-800s and 2 737-700s and will have a backlog of 6 737-800s and 5 737-900ERs with the latest contract. The airline also has 6 Boeing 787-8s on order.
Chicago-based Boeing Company is a premier jet aircraft manufacturer and one of the largest defense contractors in the U.S. Despite the battery issue related to 787-8 that resulted in the grounding of the aircraft, Boeing is flooded with orders because of the sheer fact that its aircrafts are more fuel efficient. This not only reduces cost per mile but also cuts pollution levels. Moreover, these aircrafts are right-sized for many long-haul markets. These multi-billion dollar orders will likely act as a catalyst to growth.
Recently, at the 2013 Paris Air Show, the company has in total received 102 firm orders of the 787-10 version of its flagship Dreamliner aircraft from five different airlines worth a staggering $30 billion. United Continental Holdings, Inc. (UAL-Free Report) became the launch customer with 20 firm orders. Boeing also received 30 orders each from Singapore Airlines and Air Lease Corporation (AL-Free Report), 12 orders from British Airways, and 10 orders from GE Capital Aviation Services, a subsidiary of General Electric Company (GE-Free Report).
Boeing presently retains a short-term Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the Day pick for free.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978. The later formation of the Zacks Rank, a proprietary stock picking system; continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros.Get the full Report on BA - FREEGet the full Report on RYAAY - FREEGet the full Report on UAL - FREEGet the full Report on AL - FREEGet the full Report on GE - FREEFollow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsZacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comPast performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.  Read the analyst report on BA Read the analyst report on RYAAY Read the analyst report on UAL Read the analyst report on AL Read the analyst report on GE Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read article on zacks.com