For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – June 21, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB-Free Report), U.S. Bancorp (USB-Free Report), Zions Bancorp. (ZION-Free Report), KeyCorp. (KEY-Free Report) and First Potomac Realty Trust (FPO-Free Report).Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the Day pick for free. Here are highlights from Thursday’s Analyst Blog: Fifth Third Enhances Shareholder ValueFifth Third Bancorp (FITB-Free Report) announced a 9% hike in its quarterly dividend. This is in line with the company’s 2013 capital plan which was approved by the Federal Reserve.
With this hike, Fifth Third’s quarterly dividend figure reached to 12 cents. The dividend will be paid on Jul 18, 2013 to shareholders of record as on Jun 28, 2013. The company had also increased its dividend by 10% to 11 cents in the last quarter as well.
The dividend hikes evince the company’s healthy capital position. At the end of the first quarter, Fifth Third’s Tier I common equity ratio improved 19 basis points (bps) sequentially to 9.70%. Tier I capital ratio increased 18 bps sequentially to 10.83%.
Fifth Third’s earnings power has been helping it strengthen its capital position. The company has delivered positive earnings surprises in the last 4 quarters. With an expected earnings growth rate of 9.2%, the company is expected to continue returning capital to its shareholders.
Fifth Third’s 2013 capital plan also includes redemption of trust preferred securities (TruPS) worth $750.0 million and share repurchases worth $984 million. The repurchase will include shares worth $550.0 million issued as a result of Series G preferred stock conversion. Further the company also intends additional share repurchases with the after-tax proceeds from sale of its stake in Vantiv, Inc.
Dividend Hikes by Other Banks
Similar to Fifth Third, other banks that increased their dividends following the Fed’s approval include U.S. Bancorp (USB-Free Report) – 18% to 23 cents, Zions Bancorp. (ZION-Free Report) –300% to 4 cents and KeyCorp. (KEY-Free Report) – 10% to 5.5 cents.
Conclusion
Diversified footprints of Fifth Third enable it to utilize the benefits from the recovering economy. Additionally, the company’s improving credit quality, rising loans and deposits, as well as stable balance sheet reflects its growth prospects.
Fifth Third’s efforts to enhance shareholder value thorough dividend and share repurchase activities make it an attractive pick for yield-seeking investors.
Currently, Fifth Third carries a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).First Potomac Sells Industrial AssetsFirst Potomac Realty Trust (FPO-Free Report) recently accomplished the sale of a significant part of its industrial portfolio to an affiliate of Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII and Corporate Office Properties Trust. The sell-offs have helped the company reap $259 million in total.
First Potomac can now enjoy greater financial flexibility, a streamlined portfolio and have sufficient funds to acquire high-quality office properties in the Washington, D.C. region.
In particular, the divested portfolio to the Blackstone affiliate for $241.5 million included 23 institutional-quality properties spanning over 4.0 million square feet. Of them, 16 are positioned in Southern Virginia while the rest are located in the Baltimore, MD and Washington, D.C. submarkets.
In addition, First Potomac vended a property -- I-66 Commerce Center in Haymarket, VA to Corporate Office Properties Trust in early May for $17.5 million.
The sell-offs have resulted in First Potomac retaining in its portfolio, mainly office and business park properties in the greater Washington, D.C. market. Also, two industrial properties in the Northern Virginia market are present in its current portfolio.
Moreover, recently, the company generated net proceeds of approximately $104.9 million from an equity offering of nearly 7.5 million shares. The move came as part of its efforts to infuse capital and repay debt.
Presently, we await the company’s second-quarter 2013 earnings that are scheduled to release in late July for an update on the full-year 2013 core FFO guidance, following the sale of these assets and the recently completed public offering.
Finally, we believe that the increase in financial flexibility through asset sale and the stock offering would poise the company well for investment and acquisition prospects in the greater Washington D.C. office sector and hence we remain encouraged. This is expected to go a long way in strengthening the company’s top line. Today, Zacks is promoting its ''Buy'' stock recommendations. Get #1Stock of the Day pick for free.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978. The later formation of the Zacks Rank, a proprietary stock picking system; continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros. Get the full Report on FITB - FREEGet the full Report on USB - FREEGet the full Report on ZION - FREEGet the full Report on KEY - FREEGet the full Report on FPO - FREEFollow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsZacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comPast performance is no guarantee of future results. Inherent in any investment is the potential for loss. This material is being provided for informational purposes only and nothing herein constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice, or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold a security. No recommendation or advice is being given as to whether any investment is suitable for a particular investor. It should not be assumed that any investments in securities, companies, sectors or markets identified and described were or will be profitable. All information is current as of the date of herein and is subject to change without notice. Any views or opinions expressed may not reflect those of the firm as a whole. Zacks Investment Research does not engage in investment banking, market making or asset management activities of any securities. These returns are from hypothetical portfolios consisting of stocks with Zacks Rank = 1 that were rebalanced monthly with zero transaction costs. These are not the returns of actual portfolios of stocks. The S&P 500 is an unmanaged index. Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.  Read the analyst report on FITB Read the analyst report on USB Read the analyst report on ZION Read the analyst report on KEY Read the analyst report on FPO Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read article on zacks.com