miranda kerrMoreSlaven Vlasic/Getty ImagesGood morning. Here's what you need to know.Asian markets were mostly lower in overnight trading with the Nikkei down 0.66%, ending a three-day winning streak. Europe is mixed and U.S. markets have opened modestly lower.Chinese consumer prices increased 2.4% in April, just above expectations of a 2.3% rise. Producer prices fell a more-than-expected 2.6%. Meanwhile, pork prices fell 6.5%.The Bank of Korea unexpectedly cut its interest rate to 2.5%, from 2.75%. This follows a rate cut from Bank of Australia and Poland's central bank earlier this week. Rosenberg: The Fed is trying like crazy, but nothing it's doing can save the economy >Initial jobless claims declined to 323,000 — a five-year low. It also beat estimates of an increase to 335,000. Last week's figure was revised to 327,000.
Tesla beat earnings and revenue expectations and reported its first ever profit . The company reported Q1 earnings of $0.12 per share, above expectations for $0.03 per share. Revenue jumped 83% from the last quarter to $562 million. How Tesla nearly collapsed and then came back from the dead >Australian employment increased by 50,100 in April.  This was above expectations for an 11,000 gain. Unemployment ticked lower to 5.5%, from 5.6%.The Bank of England kept its interest rate and asset purchase program unchanged at 0.5% and £375 billion respectively. Meanwhile, UK manufacturing output increased 1.1% in March, beating expectations for 0.3% growth. The biggest economic experiment of the last five years has ended in disaster >A factory fire has killed eight people in Bangladesh. This comes two weeks after a factory collapse killed over 900 workers. The government has shut down 18 factories, according to Reuters.Green Mountain Coffee Roasters reported earnings of $0.93 per share, beating expectations of $0.20 per share. It reported revenue of $1 billion. The company also reported that it has signed a five-year deal with Starbucks which caused trading to be halted briefly. Green Mountain's stock surged once trading resumed. Goldman: These are the 11 most overpriced stocks in the market >The SkyBridge Alternatives (SALT) Conference continues today at the Bellagio in Las Vegas. Today's panelists include Dan Loeb, Anthony Scaramucci, Leon Cooperman, Barney Frank, and former Greek PM George Papandreou.Bonus - Gwyneth Paltrow told US Weekly that Miranda Kerr looked beautiful at the Met Gala. Paltrow said "she's just so pretty, it's abnormal."
BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry.
Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial.
Click here to start your subscription>>
More From Business Insider 10 Things You Need To Know This Morning10 Things You Need To Know This Morning10 Things You Need To Know This Morning