Spring and summer are full of special occasions — perfect reasons to fashion a frittata. Served warm or cold, a frittata can go a long way to feed a group. Chef Jorge Montes, owner and executive chef of Roho Kitchen, shared his technique with Money Talks News founder Stacy Johnson. Watch this video and read on for the recipe.Watch 'Frugal Family Feast: Mushroom and Spinach Frittata'.It’s quite a dish for less than $15. The name frittata comes from the Italian word fritto, meaning fried. A frittata is basically an unfolded omelet filled with chopped vegetables or meat. The beauty of a frittata is that you can fill it with anything you’d like. Chef Jorge used mushrooms, spinach and provolone cheese. Crumbled bacon, crab meat, pasta and just about any vegetable work well in a frittata.Start with an oven-safe frying pan. Saute the chopped veggies and/or meat. Add the egg and cream mixture, and cook slowly on low heat, gently folding the mixture as it sets up.Once the eggs are almost cooked through, you finish the dish by topping with cheese and popping the pan in a pre-heated 350-degree oven for about 10 minutes. Drizzle a little extra virgin olive oil on top before slicing and serving. You cut a frittata into wedges, like a pie.Chef Jorge often serves frittatas for parties, bridal showers and other special events. You can pair it with a green salad and still stay within a Frugal Family Feast budget of $15.Mushroom and spinach frittata with provolone cheese – Courtesy of Chef Jorge MontesIngredients1 pound button mushrooms.½ cup diced white onion.1 pound spinach leaves.8 whole eggs.2 ounces heavy cream.1 cup provolone cheese.1 ounce butter.1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil.salt and pepper to taste.InstructionsHeat the olive oil and butter over medium heat in an oven-safe frying pan.Saute the mushrooms until they start to brown.Add the spinach and cook until it starts to wilt. Turn heat to low.Whisk eggs, and season with a little salt and pepper. Add the cream and whisk to blend.Add egg mixture to the veggies and gently fold the ingredients together.Cook slowly until the eggs are set on the bottom and sides, and almost done on top.Remove from heat. Sprinkle cheese on top and bake for 10 minutes at 350 degrees.Slice and serve.After you try this recipe, go to our Facebook page and let us know how you like it.This article was originally published on MoneyTalksNews.com as 'Frugal Family Feast: Mushroom and Spinach Frittata'.More from Money Talks NewsFrugal Family Feast: Gourmet Mac and CheeseFrugal Family Feast: Red Beans and Rice14 Ways to Make Clothes Last Longer