For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – May 9, 2013 – Stocks featured in this week’s Zacks Industry Rank analysis include Monarch Casino (MCRI) and Multimedia Game (MGAM).
Zacks Industry Rank Analysis is written by John Blank, PhD, Chief Equity Strategist, Zacks.com.Fair GameLast week, the gaming industry wasn’t attracting much attention at #182 on the Zack’s Industry Rank list. Warm-weather travel plans and increases in discretionary spending, however, are giving many dealers a nice hand.
This week, the Gaming Industry has a Zacks Industry Rank of #75.
Within the Gaming Industry of 29 companies, there have been 72 recent positive revisions to annual earnings estimates compared to 21 negative revisions. Positive estimate revisions have been averaging +13%. While there are downward earnings surprises, the sector as a whole is reflecting a trend and a few choice players in the game should be watched.
The Gaming Industry benefits from consumer confidence and vacation planning. We’ve also seen positive movement in related industries, such as Leisure and Recreational Services (Zacks Industry Rank #9).
Given the positive market sentiment lately, there are reliable indicators that this trend will continue and encourage future positive earnings estimate revisions. More favorable analysis of the sector is a likely outcome.
Sizeable upward Zacks Rank company movement within a group, changing from a Hold to either a Buy or Strong Buy rank is vital. Recent positive estimate activity can be used to the advantage of the informed investor. Glance over the brief descriptions of our two recent earnings surprise candidates. Each was selected based on its current Zacks Rank #1 and the size of recent positive earnings surprises.
Play your cards right, and you may have some earnings surprises of your own.  Monarch Casino (MCRI)
MCRI is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). It moved up from Zacks Rank #4 (Sell) just last week. This company reports quarterly earnings on July 25, 2013.
Monarch Casino & Resort, Inc., through its wholly-owned subsidiary Golden Road Motor Inn, Inc., owns and operates the tropically-themed Atlantis Casino Resort in Reno, Nevada. This casino reported a recent +52% Q1 earnings surprise.
Multimedia Game (MGAM)
MGAM is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). It was raised to its #1 rating within the last week. It reports earnings on August 6, 2013.
This developer and supplier of systems, content, electronic games and player terminals for the Native American gaming market surprised on its Q1 EPS with a +47% jump.
Multimedia Game develops video lottery systems, sweepstakes markets and other products for domestic and international markets, as well as promotional and coupon gaming systems. Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of the industries and the stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=2564.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Len Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3:1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit From the Pros by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2565. Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearchVisit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Contact: Terry Ruffolo Company: Zacks.com Phone: 312-265-9213 Email: pr@zacks.comVisit: www.Zacks.comRead the analyst report on MCRI Read the analyst report on MGAM Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on MCRI,MGAM