TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Sep 2, 2013) -
NORTHERN GOLD MINING INC. (TSX VENTURE:NGM) ("Northern Gold" or the "Company") announces that Greg Gibson has resigned from the Board of Directors due to other commitments. Northern Gold would like to thank Mr. Gibson for his contributions to the Company and wishes him the best of luck in his future endeavors.About Northern GoldNorthern Gold is a TSXV-listed gold company based in Toronto, Ontario. The Company's main focus is the exploration and development of its prospective mineral properties at the Golden Bear Project in the Larder Lake Mining Division, northeastern Ontario. Northern Gold has a portfolio of advanced exploration projects, including the Jonpol and Garrcon Deposits and the Buffonta Property. Recent transactions, including the Harker-Holloway Property acquisition and the amalgamation with Victory Gold Mines Inc., add to the Company's regional consolidation strategy along the Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone.CAUTIONARY STATEMENT: Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. No stock exchange, securities commission or other regulatory authority has approved or disapproved of the information contained herein. This news release contains forward- looking information which is not comprised of historical facts. Forward-looking statements are characterized by words such as "plan", "expect", "project", "intend", "believe", "anticipate", "estimate" and other similar words, or statements that certain events or conditions "may" or "will" occur. Forward- looking information involves risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual events, results, performance, prospects and opportunities to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information. Forward-looking information in this news release includes, but is not limited to, Northern Gold's strategic partnership and issuances of securities, and is based on, among other things, the opinions and assumptions of management considered reasonable as of the date of this news release. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward-looking information include, but are not limited to, delays in obtaining or failures to obtain required regulatory approvals, changes in equity markets, fluctuations in commodity prices, and other risks involved in the mineral exploration and development industry, including those risks set out in Northern Gold's public documents filed on SEDAR. Although Northern Gold believes that the assumptions and factors used in preparing the forward-looking information in this news release are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on such information, which only applies as of the date of this news release, and no assurance can be given that such events will occur in the disclosed time frames or at all. Northern Gold disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, other than as required by law.