Hemp, Inc. Announces Biomass from Leading Hemp Cultivar Now Available for SaleHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMoreYahooSearchNo matching results for ''Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant resultsSign inMailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMore...YAHOO_FINANCESearchSign inMailSign in to view your mailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)Hemp, Inc. Announces Biomass from Leading Hemp Cultivar Now Available for SaleGlobeNewswireJanuary 8, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareLas Vegas, NV, Jan. 08, 2020 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- via NEWMEDIAWIRE -- Hemp, Inc. (OTC PINK: HEMP) a global leader in the industrial hemp industry with bi-coastal processing centers, has announced that approximately 33,000 pounds of hemp biomass have been processed and are now available for sale.The biomass that is available for sale tested at a minimum of 7.5% cannabidiol (CBD). The biomass is from Pre-98 OG Bubba Kush, one of the top selling cultivars on the market. According to a report from Research and Markets, the global industrial hemp market is projected to grow from USD 4.6 billion in 2019 to USD 26.6 billion by 2025, recording a CAGR of 34%.Hemp, Inc. announced Nov. 21, 2019 that it had accomplished two harvests and the drying of its A and B buds from the same strain. The strain, rich soil, and climate lend themselves to Hemp, Inc. colas being among the highest quality buds, positioning them to be some of the best tasting for consumption.The A and B colas will be used to fill Hemp, Inc.’s “King of Hemp™” pre-rolls, a product line that offers high-end products that are an effective and flavorful alternative to cigarettes and other hemp consumption methods. The pre-rolls are compliant with federal regulations and do not exceed 0.3% THC. Samples of the finished product have recently hit the marketplace.Hemp, Inc. identified an increased demand for smokable hemp flower as people seek more effective methods of consumption. The Brightfield Group predicts the smokable hemp flower market is projected to be worth $70.6 million this year, jumping from $11.7 million in 2018. “The hemp biomass comes from the hemp plants that produced the A and B colas for the King of Hemp™ product line, meaning that the biomass comes from the highest quality hemp plants,” said Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin. “It’s really remarkable that we are able to offer biomass for sale and industrial use, and speaks to the versatility of the hemp plant.”To see one-minute videos of Hemp, Inc.’s current activities, visit Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook page, where he shares daily posts of Hemp, Inc.’s activities around the country. Those interested in purchasing Hemp, Inc.’s pre-rolls should email flower@hempinc.com.WHAT IS HEMP, INC.?What is Hemp, Inc.? With a deep-rooted social and environmental mission at its core, Hemp, Inc. seeks to build a business constituency for the American small farmer, the American veteran, and other groups experiencing the ever-increasing disparity between tapering income and soaring expenses. As a leader in the industrial hemp industry with ownership of the largest commercial multi-purpose industrial hemp processing facility in North America, Hemp, Inc. believes there can be tangible benefits reaped from adhering to a corporate social responsibility plan.HEMP, INC.’S PROPRIETARY HEMP FLOWER DRYING SYSTEMUnwavering in its commitment to the industrial hemp industry, Hemp, Inc. disclosed the successful development of its innovative hemp flower drying system for smokable hemp flower. Highly efficient, this compact proprietary hemp flower drying system is fast, drying in only 3 days as opposed to the traditional 7 days while maintaining the critical terpene profile of the product.  To be unveiled at its Oregon location, Hemp, Inc. executives expect this advanced hemp flower drying system to bring in excess of $10,000,000 in revenue for the company from the Oregon 2019 harvest season. drying process lends itself to creating its high quality range of “King of Hemp” pre-rolls and high CBD hemp flower.The drying process lends itself to creating Hemp, Inc.’s high quality range of “King of Hemp” pre-rolls and, of course, high CBD hemp flower. The sheer size and scope of the crop in Oregon is nothing short of amazing and is expected to be a massive game changer for Hemp, Inc.To read the full release on Hemp, Inc.’s proprietary hemp flower drying system, click here.HEMP, INC.’S TEN DIVISIONSHemp, Inc. has been helping to build the industrial hemp infrastructure that was basically non-existent in America. There are now ten divisions:Division One –                      The Industrial Hemp InfrastructureStory continuesDivision Two –                      The Hemp Farming InfrastructureDivision Three –       The Hemp Extraction InfrastructureDivision Four –                      The Hemp Educational InfrastructureDivision Five –                      The Hemp Marketing InfrastructureDivision Six –            Accessories, Products and ServicesDivision Seven –       Research and DevelopmentDivision Eight –                     Industrial Hemp Investments and Joint VenturesDivision Nine –                      Industrial Hemp ConsultingDivision Ten –                       Educational EntertainmentDivision One – The Industrial Hemp InfrastructureThe Industrial Hemp Infrastructure (Division One) currently consists of two hemp processing facilities across the country, with two more under development, which will include an in-house third party testing laboratory.  The largest of the two is its multi-purpose industrial hemp processing facility and milling operation in Spring Hope, North Carolina. It’s the largest “industrial hemp processing center” in the western hemisphere and has grown to become one of the pre-eminent centers of the industrial hemp industry. The 85,000 square foot facility sits on 9-acres. It is environmentally sustainable and was built from the ground up in hopes of “Making America Hemp Again."  With a patent pending manufacturing process, the North Carolina facility is operating full time to process millions of pounds of our unique kenaf-hemp blend, to manufacture all-green natural loss circulation materials (LCMs) that are to be sold to the oil and gas drilling industry, along with an all-green natural oil spill absorbent, a second industrial kenaf-hemp product called Spill-Be-Gone. (See www.ihempman.com)In addition to the company’s industrial hemp processing facility in Spring Hope, North Carolina, Hemp, Inc. also has one of the most sophisticated local processing centers (LPC) in Medford, Oregon which focuses on hemp harvesting, drying, curing, trimming, bagging, storing, and in some cases selling high CBD hemp for local farmers and the Company’s own hemp grows in that area, and post processing for the CBD industry.  The Company’s main focus is the “King of HempTM” pre-rolls and high CBD smokable buds… a new phenomenon of smoking hemp which has caught the marketplace by storm.Hemp, Inc. also has 4,500 acres of land in Golden Valley, Arizona (90 miles from Las Vegas, 30 miles north of Kingman, AZ).  Out of the 4,500 acres of land, 500 acres are designated for the Veteran’s Village Kins Community (VVKC) for Arizona.  Hemp, Inc. is preparing 80+ acres, of the 500 acres, for hemp cultivation. The company aims to boost the economies of these towns by offering affordable hemp processing services, which incentivizes local growers to add hemp to their crop rotation. The company is continuing to scout new locations for local processing centers in Florida, Puerto Rico, West Virginia, Kentucky, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and several other states.Thus far, Hemp, Inc.’s Local Processing Center (LPC) in Oregon has employed over 200 employees during its 2018 harvest season and over 300 employees during its 2019 harvest season to further support the infrastructure necessary for local and large scale farmers operating in the industrial hemp space.Division Two – The Hemp Farming InfrastructureThe Hemp Farming Infrastructure (Division Two) consists of hundreds of acres of hemp and kenaf growing in multiple locations, farm equipment, cloning rooms, clones and seeds, grow rooms, greenhouses, hemp drying facilities and a huge amount of peripheral farming tools and equipment.  The progress Hemp, Inc. has made in its agricultural endeavors, over the course of three years, has been amazing. (To see Hemp, Inc.’s agricultural progress from 2016 through 2019, visit Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook page at www.facebook.com/kingofpot and scroll through posts from 2016 to the present. Visit www.hempincpresents.com to see the videos of Hemp, Inc.’s grows in multiple locations.)Hemp, Inc. also has a model “Small Family Farm” in North Carolina situated on 12 acres that consists of a cloning room, a greenhouse, and enough land to grow 2,000-3,000 high CBD hemp plants. (This model farm can be seen on Bruce Perlowin's Facebook page, in the Aug. 22nd - 26th, 2018 posts.) The model shows farmers how to grow high CBD hemp plants, operate a greenhouse and turn a barn into a cloning room to earn up to $500,000+ a year.  This shows an example of how the “Small Family Farm” can be duplicated and reappear on the American landscape. After all, the original small family farms in America were able to survive economically by growing hemp as their main cash crop and the first five presidents of the United States were all hemp farmers.According to Perlowin, the company is preparing to grow on up to 500 acres of land in Oregon, 300 acres in Arizona (maybe more), hundreds of acres in NC (combination of hemp and kenaf), and an undetermined amount in other states. He says collective sales from all these grows will be extremely significant in terms of pre-rolls, high CBD buds, distillate, isolate and biomass. “By 2020, we anticipate the main function of the company will be sales and marketing as we will have completed the infrastructure to support that sales and marketing.  Right now, I believe we have the largest footprint with vertical integration in the hemp industry in America today. We are always looking for joint ventures where we have or can expand our footprint,” commented Perlowin.Moreover, “A to Z” services for the farmers are available - from harvesting to drying, bagging, curing, storing, nitrogen sparging, machine trimming, hand trimming, and selling, creating a “one stop shop” for the small to large family farms.  And with the soon-to-be addition of our third party, on-site testing labs from Digipath Labs, local farmers can do their testing, processing and selling in the same place. Digipath Labs brings their proprietary ISO-17025:2017 accredited standard operating procedures and testing protocols, to establish, maintain, and operate each lab.Digipath Labs will bring state-of-the-art equipment, lab expertise, proprietary operating procedures and management to Hemp, Inc.’s rapidly growing locations to ensure the highest quality of goods before entering the marketplace. They will provide all necessary laboratory-expertise and related management services to develop and operate each Lab, including purchasing and maintenance of the laboratory instrumentation, as well as hiring and comprehensive training of lab personnel. Without an in-house, third-party testing laboratory, products in need of testing would need to be transported off site, which could mean waiting days or even weeks for results. The addition of Digipath Labs at Hemp, Inc.’s production centers will expedite testing processes and further support new business developments. (For more information on Digipath Labs, visit www.digipathlabs.com.)Division Three – The Hemp Extraction InfrastructureThe Hemp CBD Oil Extraction Infrastructure (Division Three) originally consisted of a Supercritical C02 Extractor. After operating for over a year it has been determined that Hemp, Inc. will be upgrading to a much larger and advanced alcohol extraction process.  These large-scale extractors are expected to be placed in all additional hemp processing arenas, thus completing this part of building the industrial hemp infrastructure. The CBD oil that we extracted from our 2018 hemp grows in North Carolina has been made into pure crystalline CBD isolate which we will add to our “King of HempTM” branded line of pre-rolls to bring to the marketplace and a pre-roll fortified with pure crystalline CBD isolate.Prior to building its own extraction laboratories, Hemp, Inc. plans to utilize the facilities of other labs in the industry to manufacture its own line of CBD oil products while they continue to build and expand the infrastructure for pre-rolls and high CBD smokable buds. The Company will hire or joint venture with other, already existing, labs to manufacture CBD, CBG, CBN, and other products in our future cannabinoid line. With 113 different cannabinoids, over 300 terpenes, and more of each being discovered almost monthly, the product range and possibilities in this area are endless.Division Four – The Hemp Educational InfrastructureThe Hemp Educational Infrastructure (Division Four) includes Hemp, Inc.'s Hemp University which focuses on educating and empowering Hemp farmers and entrepreneurs with knowledge, processing, infrastructure and support.  The educational seminars, through the Hemp University, are held periodically and teach farmers and landowners how to create a profitable income stream by maximizing the per-acre crop revenue. Through this division, Hemp, Inc. has trained well over 500 farmers in its first two years by doing a total of nine Hemp University seminars in North Carolina and Oregon, thus far, which include:The Pre-Harvest Symposium – September 8, 2019 (Oregon)“The Pre-Harvest Symposium” workshop at Southern Oregon University was expertly designed for both farmers and entrepreneurs of all experience levels, focused on harvesting, processing and profit channels within the hemp industry. The third edition of the Southern Oregon Hemp University brought an abundance of insight into innovations within the realm of harvesting and processing to the forefront. Additionally, the symposium touched on traditional practices in agriculture. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 9/9/19 for a short video on this symposium.)Pre-Plant Support Workshop – May 4, 2019 (Oregon)“The Pre-Plant Support Workshop” was an incredible success that filled the entire venue to capacity with attendees. In total, there were close to 200 attendees, including 20 vendors in attendance. The workshop was designed to help hemp farmers or those who are interested in the hemp industry learn the best pre-planting practices prior to the planting season. The Hemp University Pre-Planting Support Workshop was an interactive and informative workshop that covered the various details hemp farmers should know prior to planting in the 2019 season and beyond. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 5/9/19 for a short video on this workshop.)The Hemp University Educational Seminar - March 23, 2019 (Oregon)This was the first Hemp University held on the West Coast.  The seminar provided attendees with a full day of networking, education, and support. The seminar helped others in the area who were interested in the hemp industry learn more about the “Industrial Hemp Revolution” and how this movement can not only transform Southern Oregon’s economy, but also revive family farms and small businesses in the surrounding areas. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 3/28/19 for a short video on this seminar.)Growing Hemp for Profit – March 10, 2018 – (North Carolina)         The Hemp University’s first educational symposium event of 2018 entitled “Growing Hemp for Profit” took place on Saturday, March 10, 2018. Attendees learned from the University’s industrial hemp experts as they shared their lessons from their experiences in growing industrial hemp. “Growing Hemp for Profit,” which took place from 8:30am to 5 pm at the Hilton Garden Inn in Charlotte, North Carolina. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 3/17/18 for a short video on this symposium.)Hemp Money Event: Economics, Lessons & Planning for 2018 – December 2, 2017 – (North Carolina)The fifth most vital and anticipated educational symposium of the year was Hemp Money Event: Economics, Lessons & Planning for 2018. This symposium was held on Saturday, December 2, 2017 from 8:30am to 5:00pm at the Shrine Club (320 Airport Rd, Rocky Mount, NC 27804). Attendees learned the economics of growing industrial hemp for fiber, seeds, and CBD; learned about other master POD growers’ experiences and lessons; and, learned how to prepare for the 2018 industrial hemp growing season with a well-defined blueprint for success. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 12/23/17 for a short video on this symposium.)The Hemp Oil Event: The Art and Science of CBD Oil – September 30, 2017 (North Carolina)The Hemp Oil Event (The Art & Science of CBD Oil) was The Hemp University’s fourth symposium in North Carolina, held on Saturday, September 30, 2017 from 8:30am to 5:00pm at the Peachtree Hills Country Club, 3512 Peachtree Hills Road, Spring Hope, NC 27882.  The symposium brought attendees up to speed on all business and scientific aspects of Industrial Hemp CBD cannabinoids by disseminating current, reliable information that continues to shape the revolutionary CBD market. Attendees also got a chance to go to Hemp, Inc.’s, then, 70,000 square foot multipurpose industrial hemp decortication facility for the first live public demonstration of its Supercritical CO2 Extraction System using North Carolina-grown CBD industrial hemp. Representatives from NuAxon Bioscience were also on-site to allow those interested in purchasing their own CBD extraction system. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 9/30/17 for a short video on this symposium.)The Art and Science of CBD Greenhouse Growing – June 24, 2017 (North Carolina)The 3rd Hemp University educational symposium held on June 24, 2017 focused on The Art and Science of CBD Greenhouse Growing. The educational symposium was held at Louisburg College in Louisburg, North Carolina. A team of experts engaged attendees through the greenhouse and indoor growing process from cultivation to harvest and from processing to distribution. Dr. Robert Bruck, Dean of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics and Distinguished Professor of Environmental Science at Louisburg College, was The Hemp University’s special guest who lectured on soil microbiology during the symposium. Attendees were able to spend half of the course at Hemp, Inc.’s, then, 70,000 square-foot Industrial Hemp Hub, in a 3,000 square-foot cloning room. There, attendees had the opportunity to experience a more hands-on learning approach. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 6/30/17 for a short video on this symposium.)Farming Hemp for ProfitTM – April 29, 2017  (North Carolina)Hemp, Inc.’s second, sold out, educational symposium (Farming HEMP for Profit™), through its Hemp University, was a phenomenal success. The symposium took place on Saturday, April 29, 2017, from 8:30am – 5:00pm, at the Hampton Inn & Suites located at 3920 Arrow Drive, Raleigh, NC 27612 and drew over 100 attendees. The one-day educational symposium and tour of Hemp, Inc.’s, then, 70,000 square-foot multipurpose industrial hemp facility was an opportunity for landowners and farmers to learn how to apply real business building tactics with a “specific step-by-step blueprint” on how to grow, sell and profit from farming industrial hemp. This event accomplished its mission to help landowners and farmers add a new viable and profitable income stream by maximizing the per-acre crop revenue. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook post on 4/30/17 for a short video on this symposium.)Farming Hemp for ProfitTM – March 18, 2017 (North Carolina)This was Hemp, Inc.’s first Hemp University symposium.  The symposium was a sold out event and was a huge success with 100 attendees who rated the quality of information presented as excellent. The symposium took place on Saturday, March 18, 2017, from 8:00am – 5:00pm, at Hemp, Inc.’s wholly owned subsidiary, Industrial Hemp Manufacturing, LLC, located at 1436 Highway 581 North, Spring Hope, North Carolina, 27882. The one-day educational symposium was an opportunity for landowners and farmers to receive a “specific step-by-step blueprint” on how to grow, sell and profit from farming industrial hemp by using real business tactics and principles, presented by industry experts. (See Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook posts on 3/18-19 and 3/21-26, 2019 for a short videos on this symposium.)The Hemp University is expected to hold its next “Post-Harvest Symposium” and the first ever Golden Grow Awards Gala, in Oregon, in collaboration with the Southern Oregon Hemp Co-op and GreenLeaf Lab during the first quarter of 2020 (tentatively, January 26, 2020).  The Golden Grow Awards Gala is a joint effort to recognize, evaluate and honor excellence in the industrial hemp field.To listen to past Hemp University workshops, please visit hemp-university.teachable.com. Also visit https://www.hempincpresents.com to see highlights from Hemp, Inc.’s inaugural Hemp University held in North Carolina, which sold out in two weeks.The Hemp University’s twelve online educational masterclasses are $10 each and each masterclass is under an hour in length. The online courses include lectures from industry leaders who have educated attendees at the Hemp University workshops in Oregon. These online masterclasses provide farmers who were either not able to attend the first Hemp University or who would like to revisit certain topics presented by the event speakers.Those interested in attending, presenting or showcasing at Hemp, Inc.’s Hemp University, for Oregon, may contact Sophia Blanton via email (hempu@hempinc.com). For other states and to be part of our online courses, all experts in any aspect of the industrial hemp industry, contact Chris Tinney on (855) 554-6834 or via email at (ctinney@hempinc.com).According to executives, there are also plans in the near future to expand The Hemp University to other states, including Arizona, through a variety of different formats.  The eco-village in Arizona will serve as the venue for interactive and hands-on camping events which will focus on building with hemp-crete and other hemp construction materials, as well as growing hemp and the various aspects of organic gardening/farming, natural bee-keeping and other back-to-the-land and small family farm educational courses.“Since The Hemp University’s initial launch with the educational symposium, the number of attendees has grown tremendously and it has been an overwhelming success, each time. The interactive, hands-on learning approach is invaluable. By learning in an interactive cohort format, students gain the necessary skills they need to immediately implement them on their farm or in their organization. It’s the perfect mix of quality instruction, relevant educational content and a high level of commitment, to ensure the educational success of each attendee,” said Perlowin.Thus far, The Hemp University has helped transform the livelihoods of North Carolina and Oregon farmers transitioning from tobacco and other crops to industrial hemp by providing them with the tools and support needed to gain a foothold in this burgeoning industry. Division Five – The Hemp Marketing InfrastructureWhile marketing is a critical facet of any business operation for increasing revenues, Hemp, Inc. believes there must be a keen focus on the infrastructure first.  The demand for CBD and hemp products is massive, some even say the demand is insatiable.  In order to supply that type of volume/demand, there has to be a strong foundation or infrastructure in place.  While Hemp, Inc. is poised to grow a rock solid Hemp Marketing Infrastructure, CEO Perlowin reminds us that this infrastructure has to be able to support a meteoric industry growth.  The cannabidiol (CBD) market is on track to grow to $23.7 billion through 2023, according to the Brightfield Group.  The firm also estimated the smokable hemp market to be valued at $11.5 million in 2018, a growth of 250% from 2017. “This is why we focus on infrastructure, at the moment, more so than specific marketing activities,” says Perlowin. “Specific marketing activities isn’t the issue.  The ability to grow, process and produce what the marketplace is demanding is the issue and hence the reason we focused on creating the infrastructure first.”The company has also recently joint-ventured with the retail store “Hemp Healthcare”, in Dolan Springs, Arizona, to sell high-end cannabidiol (CBD) and hemp-based products. “Hemp Healthcare” is home to an array of renowned CBD and hemp products, including Hemp, Inc.’s cosmetic and wellness line that includes shampoos, lotions, candles and more. The retail storefront is conveniently located off Highway 93 in Arizona, in a highly trafficked tourist area. Specifically located on Pierce Ferry Road, “Hemp Healthcare” is next to “Dolan Station” – a location that welcomes numerous tour buses daily with visitors from around the world that stop there on trips to the Grand Canyon. On some days, up to 40 tour buses stop at this location, filled to the brim with tourists on their way to the Sky Walk at the Grand Canyon.Division Six – Accessories, Products and ServicesDivision Six focuses on the sale of hemp industry accessories such as the sale of extractors, harvesters, storage bags, containers, fertilizer, soil amendments, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, balers, greenhouses, and greenhouse equipment; the drying, trimming, curing, storing and brokering for other farmers harvesting hemp; and ultimately anything else a hemp farmer may need to be successful. “What we found is that people are always looking for hundreds of items. New harvesting equipment, irrigation equipment of all kinds, soil amendments, organic soil fertilizers, organic pest control products, new extraction technologies and more,” said Perlowin.Division Seven – Research and DevelopmentWhile Research and Development has been an integral part of Hemp, Inc. since day one, a more formal research and development project is planned after significant revenues are created. This division will then start and expand rapidly. The Company originally planned for Puerto Rico, but found the barrier to entrance was much too great and has therefore changed its position to focus its research and development division on states where hemp is already legal. Hemp, Inc. is proud to have been a pioneer and leader in the early stages of the hemp industry in America with our strategy to build infrastructure even before legalization occurred in a state such as what was done in North Carolina and Arizona.According to Hemp, Inc.’s CEO, Bruce Perlowin, “Currently, it is now economically more advantageous to operate in a state that already has several years of legalization behind it and thus, further down the road, making it easier for hemp companies to thrive as we have done in North Carolina, Arizona, Nevada and especially Oregon.  We’ve hit a grand slam in Oregon, so to speak, in our growing operations for 2 consecutive years. We may revisit Puerto Rico once they have straightened out their legal red tape, and their rules and regulations.”Division Eight – Industrial Hemp Investments and Joint VenturesHemp, Inc. recently established the eighth division (Industrial Hemp Investments and Joint Ventures).  Since the passing of the 2018 hemp bill, Hemp, Inc. has been flooded with inquiries of people who want to invest in the hemp industry but don’t know where to start. As the Avant-guard of the industrial hemp industry, Hemp, Inc. has put together numerous joint venture investment opportunities for the medium to large-scale investor. Those who are interested should email ir@hempinc.com. Multi-million dollar investors, and in some cases billionaires and billion dollar hedge funds, are aggressively trying to get into the hemp industry since the passing of the 2018 Farm Bill. Our joint venture agreements are that they put up the money and we put up the expertise in a 50/50 revenue share (after all the initial investment money is paid back first).  This will save the large-scale hemp investor often two years and dozens of multi-million dollar mistakes that they “WILL” often make without an expert in the hemp industry. This is where Hemp, Inc.’s vast network of experts and resources in the industrial hemp industry come into play because this is something that can easily be provided to those interested in entering this industry.Division Nine – Industrial Hemp ConsultingHemp, Inc.’s Industrial Hemp and Medical Marijuana Consulting Company (IHMMCC) was recently restructured as its ninth division and is now “Division Nine - Industrial Hemp Consulting”.  With an influx of public companies wanting to expand into the industrial hemp industry, Hemp, Inc. has been inundated with potential consulting agreements. To keep up, Hemp, Inc. revamped its consulting division to work hands-on with each company to provide its years of expertise. According to Perlowin, there is definitely a sense of “Community of Companies” whereby a lot of companies are working together to pool their resources, marketing connections and strategies in order to grow simultaneously.Typically, companies seeking in depth consulting services from Hemp, Inc. pay mostly in stock since cash flow is oftentimes tight during the developmental stage of start-up companies in this industry. Through Hemp, Inc.’s Division Nine – Industrial Hemp Consulting, a wide range of services are forged from the experiences of creating the first publicly trading company in the cannabis sector (Medical Marijuana, Inc.) and having well over a decade of experience in the cannabis industry’s public sector. Perlowin, Hemp, Inc.’s chief executive officer also has over five decades in the industry itself.Division Ten – Educational EntertainmentHemp, Inc.’s newest division, Entertainment, will cover everything from investing in the movie “The Adventures of the King of Pot” (http://www.kingofpotthemovie.com/) and other historical movies, books and documentaries representing our industry up to the current docuseries being made on “The Modern Day History of Hemp”.  Those interested in investing in any one of these ventures should contact the division’s Project Manager, Chris Tinney, at 855-554-6834 or via email, ctinney@hempinc.com.VETERAN VILLAGE KINS COMMUNITIESTo see the livestream feed for the Veteran’s Village Kins Community Arizona, visit www.hempinc.com/arizona and click on “View Live Feed”.The company’s 500-acre strategic growing partner Veteran Village Kins Community in Golden Valley, Arizona, is designed to grow hemp and produce CBD products to benefit veterans as well as generate revenue for Hemp, Inc., the Veteran Village and individual veterans living in the community.The Veteran Village Kins Community in Arizona has completed its final site plan blueprints for its 500-acre site in Golden Valley, Arizona (20 miles north of Kingman, AZ and 90 minutes from Las Vegas, NV). The site plan was submitted to the Mohave County Building Department for final review. The Company is also in the final stages of completing the necessary infrastructure to support an off-grid, renewable, energy system.As soon as all the live streaming video cameras are up and operational, the world can actually see the way the Veteran Village Kins Community is designed and watch it being built. According to Perlowin, the basic framework or overall plan of the Veteran Village Kins Communities is to create a holistic healing and learning center that is designed to educate and heal veterans with PTSD, alcoholism, meth addiction, opioid addiction, and other psychological conditions while at the same time training them on the numerous aspects of being part of the emerging multi-billion dollar hemp industry. To see the first live streaming video, click here.The Company will also build hemp-growing communities for other groups such as “Abused” Women & Children Village Kins Communities, the “Orphaned” Children Village Kins Communities, “Homeless” Village Kins Communities, and the “Healers” Village Kins Communities (the healers are professionals who are knowledgeable in the modalities to treat these traumatized groups). These particular communities are all synergistically aligned to work simultaneously supporting each other.For example, the “Healers” heal the traumatized veterans and women & children; the women support orphan children, and orphan children want to see people living in homes and not homeless. Thus, a portion of the hemp grown in each community goes to create and support another community, giving everybody a sense of giving back and helping others as they help themselves. This circles back to the healers who also work to heal the veterans and the other traumatized groups. This is the economic foundation on how the sale of the hemp products operates as a “quantum economic matrix” or an example of “symbiotic economics” which is more complex than this brief description allows.Dwight Jory, the Project Manager for the “Veteran Village Kins Community Arizona, Inc.”, said, “We are very happy with the progress. Our Kins Community is really beginning to come together.” In anticipation of planting to begin during the spring, 300 acres have been fenced, 16 overnight trailer park sites are under construction, and six 40×40-ft organic vegetable gardens have been planted and are currently producing food and kenaf, according to Jory. These organic gardens double as experimental growing modules using an entire array of different growing technologies to see which modalities grow the best in a desert environment. As for the 6 geodesic domes mentioned in an earlier press release, 1 is structurally complete with only the electrical and plumbing to be completed. The rest are on site awaiting final site plan approval.“We are now accepting volunteers who have expressed an interest in helping to build the first Kins Community for our veterans,” said Jory. Those interested in making the first hemp growing CBD-producing “Veteran Village Kins Community” become a reality should contact Ms. Sandra Williams via email (swilliams@hempinc.com).One thousand trees, on 36 of the 500-acres, have also been planted, with an additional 1,000 trees on order. The “Veteran Village Kins Community” will include a 100,000-square foot GMP compliant, central processing plant, a state-of-the-art testing laboratory, and various health and wellness centers to support veterans who may have psychological, emotional or health issues.“As Hemp, Inc. positions itself on the forefront of America’s industrial hemp revolution, we see our partnership with ‘Veteran Village Kins Community Arizona, Inc.’ being paramount in supporting the small family farm movement that we are confident will reshape the American landscape,” said Perlowin. “As we work toward getting our eco-village up and running in Arizona, we are also aggressively scouting strategic locations in other states including North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. Giving veterans and other Americans a place to learn new skills and take part in this multi-billion-dollar hemp CBD market is very exciting. It’s a big part of our mission to give back.  Recently we have expanded our Kins Community concept internationally focusing, but not limited to, Israel, New Zealand, Canada, Africa, and Uruguay.”Hemp, Inc. executives are also continuing to scout new locations nationwide to open additional hemp processing centers in legal markets.PRESS COVERAGEBetween the Hemp University, the hemp processing center and Bruce Perlowin himself, the Company has created an enormous amount of media coverage. See below for the list of press hits the Company has received up to the end of this quarter:Hit: “Hemp: the burgeoning industry of southern Oregon” - (NBC) KOBI-5, December 22, 2018Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Featured on Oregon NBC 5 Station Following Passage of 2018 Farm Bill”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-featured-on-oregon-nbc-5-station-following-passage-of-2018-farm-bill/Hit: “Carolina’s next cash crop?: Farm bill will add hemp into more growers’ rotation” - The Wilson Times, December 26, 2018Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Receives Prominent News Coverage Discussing Hemp Legalization and Small Family Farms”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-receives-prominent-news-coverage-discussing-hemp-legalization-and-small-family-farms/Hit: “Arizona's next cash crop? Lawmaker pushes for rush on hemp bill” - ABC 15, January 28, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Applauds Arizona Legislative Drive to Push Up Industrial Hemp Licensing Date to June 2019 as Veteran Village Kins Community Builds Out Infrastructure”https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/02/25/1741708/0/en/Hemp-Inc-Applauds-Arizona-Legislative-Drive-to-Push-Up-Industrial-Hemp-Licensing-Date-to-June-2019-as-Veteran-Village-Kins-Community-Builds-Out-Infrastructure.htmlHit: “Farmers could plant hemp in Arizona fields this summer, if bill passes - ABC KUGN-9, February 8, 2019Hit: “Adams on Agriculture - Bruce Perlowin/Hemp, Inc.” - Adams On Agriculture, February 22, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Featured on National Radio Show Discussing Company's Expanding Footprint and Demand for Cannabidiol”https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/02/27/1743589/0/en/Hemp-Inc-CEO-Featured-on-National-Radio-Show-Discussing-Company-s-Expanding-Footprint-and-Demand-for-Cannabidiol.htmlHit: “Hemp, Inc. seeking JV partners for processing facilities, CEO says” - MergerMarket, February 28, 2019Hit: “Hemp, Inc. holds first west coast educational seminar in Ashland” -  (NBC) KOBI-5, March 23, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Featured by CBS and NBC Affiliates in Oregon About The Hemp University’s Educational Hemp Seminar”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-featured-by-cbs-and-nbc-affiliates-in-oregon-about-the-hemp-universitys-educational-hemp-seminar/Hit: “Hemp University: getting schooled on cannabis” - CBS News 10, March 26, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Featured by CBS and NBC Affiliates in Oregon About The Hemp University’s Educational Hemp Seminar”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-featured-by-cbs-and-nbc-affiliates-in-oregon-about-the-hemp-universitys-educational-hemp-seminar/Hit: “How Hemp Is Giving Renewed Life To America's Tobacco Farmers” - Forbes, March 25, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured in Forbes Discussing Tobacco Farmers Who are Turning to Industrial Hemp”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-featured-in-forbes-discussing-tobacco-farmers-who-are-turning-to-industrial-hemp/Hit: “Market for hemp still a ways off” - Tri-State Neighbor, March 28, 2019Hit: “Tobacco growers may find new avenue in hemp farming” - AgDaily, April 26, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured in AgDaily Discussing Hemp as Agricultural Industry’s Newest Cash Crop”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-featured-in-agdaily-discussing-hemp-as-agricultural-industrys-newest-cash-crop/Hit: “Industrial hemp has potential to be a big cash crop for area farmers” - Tulsa World, May 12, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured in Tulsa World Discussing Oklahoma’s Industrial Hemp Industry”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-featured-in-tulsa-world-discussing-oklahomas-industrial-hemp-industry/Hit: “Growing hemp in the desert” - Today’s News-Herald/Havasu News, June 10, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured on Cover of Today’s News-Herald Discussing Arizona's Industrial Hemp Industry”https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/06/17/1869821/0/en/Hemp-Inc-CEO-Bruce-Perlowin-Featured-on-Cover-of-Today-s-News-Herald-Discussing-Arizona-s-Industrial-Hemp-Industry.htmlHit: “Hempathon" contest planned for Golden Valley” - Mohave Daily News, July 7, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured in Mohave Daily News and CBD Today Discussing Hempathon”https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-165236585.htmlHit: “Hemp, Inc. Seeking Agriculture Suppliers and Farmers for Hempathon Event” - CBD Today, July 2, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured in Mohave Daily News and CBD Today Discussing Hempathon”https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-165236585.htmlHit: “Hemp Inc. to Hold “Hempathon” in Mohave County” - Arizona Cannabis News, July 15, 2019Hit: “Hemp, Inc. taking hemp into bioplastics” - Plastics News, August 22, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Featured in Plastics News Regarding Entry Into Hemp Bioplastics Industry to Help Fill Growing Demand for Eco-friendly Materials”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-announces-hemp-cultivation-now-legal-in-new-jersey-through-expanded-regulations/Hit: “ROSEBUD ORIGINAL VIDEO: Hemp University the Pre-Harvesting Symposium” - Mail Tribune, September 9, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Subsidiary, The Hemp University, Featured in Mail Tribune Showcasing Pre-Harvest Symposium Hemp Workshop”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-subsidiary-the-hemp-university-featured-in-mail-tribune-showcasing-pre-harvest-symposium-hemp-workshop/Hit: “Hemp In The Valley” - CBS News 10, September 12, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Featured on CBS News 10 in Oregon Discussing State’s Booming Hemp Industry”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-featured-on-cbs-news-10-in-oregon-discussing-states-booming-hemp-industry/Hit: “Episode 72 : "King of pot, smuggling 101, and getting arrested on an airplane” - Off Script With Trish Glose, CBS News 10 Podcast, September 25, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin to be Featured on the Podcast “Off Script with Trish Glose” This Wednesday”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-to-be-featured-on-the-podcast-off-script-with-trish-glose-this-wednesday/Hit: “Why US Tobacco Farmers Are Switching To Hemp” - Business Insider, September 16, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Affiliate, Through a Joint Venture, Featured on Business Insider for North Carolina Farming Operations”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-affiliate-through-a-joint-venture-featured-on-business-insider-for-north-carolina-farming-operations/Hit: “HEMP, INC. Joins The Stock Day Podcast to Discuss The Distribution of Their Hemp Pre-Rolls” - Stock Day Podcast, September 27, 2019Press Release: “HEMP, INC. Joins The Stock Day Podcast to Discuss The Distribution of Their Hemp Pre-Rolls”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-joins-the-stock-day-podcast-to-discuss-the-distribution-of-their-hemp-pre-rolls/Hit: “Hemp hardwoods, bioplastics expand crop use beyond CBD” - United Press International, October 2, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Featured in Globally Syndicated News Provider, United Press International, Discussing Industrial Applications for Bioplastics”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-featured-in-globally-syndicated-news-provider-united-press-international-discussing-industrial-applications-for-bioplastics-2/Hit: “Rising High: An Exclusive Talk with Industrial Hemp Company Hemp, Inc.” - The Fly, October 17, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Profiled in Financial News Outlet, The Fly”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-profiled-in-financial-news-outlet-the-fly-2/Hit: “Lack of Processing Facilities For Hemp” - ABC News Watch 12, October 30, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. Oregon Processing Operation Featured in NewsWatch 12’s Harvest Coverage”https://www.hempinc.com/hemp-inc-oregon-processing-operation-featured-in-newswatch-12s-harvest-coverage/Hit: “Hemp farmers in red tape” - CBS News 10, November 5, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc.’s Commentary on New USDA Rules Featured in KTVL Broadcast and Smoky Mountain News”https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hemp-inc-commentary-usda-rules-133259687.htmlHit: “Legislature to ban smokable hemp in N.C.” - Smoky Mountain News, November 6, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc.’s Commentary on New USDA Rules Featured in KTVL Broadcast and Smoky Mountain News”https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hemp-inc-commentary-usda-rules-133259687.htmlHit: “Hemp Inc. CEO, Bruce Perlowin Interview” - The Light, November 13, 2019Press Release: “Hemp, Inc. CEO Bruce Perlowin Joins News Video Series, The Light, to Discuss Company Initiatives”https://finance.yahoo.com/news/hemp-inc-ceo-bruce-perlowin-124612561.htmlDAILY UPDATES ON FACEBOOKHemp, Inc. strives to be one of the most transparent companies in the public sector. To adhere to this company policy of transparency, CEO Bruce Perlowin posts 1-minute video updates daily on his personal Facebook page to give an inside look and behind-the-scenes footage of what Hemp, Inc. is doing on a daily basis. “We want them to know how the company is performing and what it is doing to reach its goals,” says Perlowin. To see 1 minute videos of Hemp, Inc.’s current activities, go to Bruce Perlowin’s personal Facebook page where he posts daily on all the activity Hemp, Inc. is doing around the country. (No other public company has this level of transparency than Hemp, Inc.)THE UPCOMING DOCUSERIESHemp, Inc. entered into an agreement with 2 Manifest Studio, LLC, a Wyoming, Limited Liability Company (VED), to create a documentary and subsequent docuseries over the course of an estimated five years.  Per the terms of the agreement, VED will create a feature length film and corresponding docuseries and other video materials about the history of hemp with a strong focus on Hemp, Inc. and other pioneers and companies that are leaders in the modern-day history of industrial hemp. The content will be wholly-owned by Hemp, Inc. 2 Manifest Studio Director Joseph Trivigno and his team have been tracking Hemp, Inc.’s progress, as executives meet with farmers throughout the country to document the company’s expansion into new markets.  The documentary is expected to be released by 2020. The docuseries is expected to follow the film’s release. The film crew will also capture hemp developments in markets around the globe.THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HEMP AND MARIJUANAHemp is completely different from marijuana in its function, cultivation and application. In cultivating marijuana, the plants are spaced far apart, and the male plants are destroyed to assure that they cannot seed the female plants, which would result in undesirable, less potent and less marketable, seeded marijuana buds. Hemp, on the other hand, is planted close together and commonly hermaphrodites, which creates an abundance of seeds, the main component of Hemp foods and supplements. The Hemp stalks are processed and used for fiber, composite, and other hemp based end products.Hemp is used in variety of other applications that marijuana couldn’t possibly be used in. These include healthy dietary supplements, skin products, clothing, and accessories. Overall, hemp is known to have over 25,000 possible applications. Hemp products such as Hemp Milk, Hemp Cereal, and Hemp Oil are used by consumers every day.For an excellent read on the difference between hemp and marijuana, visit the Ministry of Hemp.HOW HEMP CAN CHANGE THE WORLDFiber – Hemp fiber can be used to make fabrics and textiles, rope and paper. The word ‘canvas’ actually derives from the word cannabis.Fuel – While the industrial, medicinal and commercial properties of hemp have been known to mankind for a very long time, its benefits to the environment have just been realized in recent years. One of the compelling things hemp offers is fuel. With reserves of petroleum being depleted, it would be nice if we could have a fuel source which was reusable and which we could grow right here, making us completely energy independent.Food – Hemp seeds are very nutritious and were first thought to be eaten by the Ancient Chinese and Indians. Hemp seeds have a nutty taste and can be eaten raw, ground up, sprouted, or made into dried sprout powder. Hemp seeds also contain a very beneficial oil that is high in unsaturated fatty acids, including an optimal 1:4 ratio of omega-3 to 6.Building Material – Hemp can be made into a variety of building materials. These include concrete-like blocks called ‘hempcrete’, biodegradable plastics, and wood replacements. These materials have been used in the manufacture of many things, including electronics, cars and houses. In fact, the first American home made of hemp-based materials was completed in August 2010 in Asheville, North Carolina.Biofuel – Remarkably, the oil from hemp seeds and stalks can also be made into biofuels.Biodiesel — sometimes known as ‘hempoline’. While this biofuel can be used to power engines, it does take quite a lot of raw material to produce a substantial amount.SUBSCRIBE TO HEMP, INC.’S VIDEO UPDATES“Hemp, Inc. Presents” captures the historic, monumental re-creation of the hemp decorticator and the hemp grinding and milling facility (which has been operational for 2 ½ years now) as America begins to evolve into a cleaner, green eco-friendly sustainable environment. What many see as the next American Industrial Revolution is actually the Industrial Hemp Revolution. Watch as Hemp, Inc., the No. 1 leader in the industrial hemp industry, engages its shareholders and the public through each step in bringing back the hemp decorticator as described in the “Freedom Leaf Magazine” article “The Return of the Hemp Decorticator” by Steve Bloom.“Hemp, Inc. Presents” is accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, by visiting www.hempinc.com. To subscribe to the “Hemp, Inc. Presents” YouTube channel, be sure to click the subscribe button.HEMP BENCHMARKSHemp Benchmarks®, a division of New Leaf Data Services, is a leading provider of financial, business and industry data for the North American hemp markets. They offer comprehensive and unique benchmark services for public and private organizations, and financial institutions. Hemp Benchmarks’ management team has over 100 years of cumulative commodity data services experience, more than 80 years of cumulative hemp and cannabis industry experience and subject matter experts in multiple jurisdictions/geographies. Their September 2019 “Hemp Benchmarks Spot Price Index Report” is a comprehensive and valuable resource that includes the following:  September Assessed Price by Product Category  Monthly Biomass Volume Discount Curve  Wholesale Price Correlation Matrix  2019 Biomass Yield & Market Value Estimates  Comprehensive U.S. State Acreage & License Counts  USDA & FDA UpdatesThe downloadable PDF can be accessed here. Be sure to visit their site, www.hempbenchmarks.com.UPCOMING INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC EVENTSAcross the globe, the hemp industry is rising to astronomical levels. In the wake of the hemp industry projected to grow 700% and hit $1.8 billion by 2020, there has been more education and networking within the industry. That means more events and conferences, thus, Hemp, Inc. has started compiling an ongoing list of upcoming hemp events around the world.  Check out the listing of international and domestic events here.SOCIAL NETWORKShttps://www.facebook.com/KingOfPot (Bruce Perlowin’s Facebook Page)http://www.facebook.com/hempinc (Facebook)https://www.hempincpresents.com (Hemp, Inc.’s North Carolina YouTube Channel)https://www.instagram.com/hempincorporated/ (Hemp, Inc.’s Instagram) https://twitter.com/HempInc (Hemp, Inc.’s Twitter)FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLAIMER AND DISCLOSURESThis press release may contain certain forward-looking statements and information, as defined within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is subject to the Safe Harbor created by those sections. To clarify the issue of OTC placing a stop sign next to Hemp, Inc.’s stock trading symbol, that symbol indicates Hemp, Inc. does not report their financials. As a non-reporting pink sheet company, Hemp, Inc. is not required to report. The company does, however, choose to publicly report its quarterly and yearly financials on its website. According to the company’s CEO, the OTC stop sign is a misrepresentation of that reporting fact. This material contains statements about expected future events and/or financial results that are forward-looking in nature and subject to risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements by definition involve risks, uncertainties.Contact:Hemp, Inc.    855-436-7688ir@hempinc.comMore Contacts:flower@hempinc.comhempu@hempinc.comctinney@hempinc.comReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextWhat Exactly Is CBD and Can It Improve Your Performance and Recovery?Runner's WorldBiocontainment expert on coronavirus: There's no need for average people to panic yetYahoo FinanceA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoStock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoMost face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo Finance'Stuck in no man’s land': A working mom details dealing with her sick child's student loan billYahoo FinanceDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance VideoRichard Branson’s Wealth Falls to Earth as Virgin Galactic SputtersBloombergStock market live updates: Stock futures climb after historic rout; coronavirus fears persistYahoo FinancePersonal loans growth rate rises, impacts retailersYahoo Finance VideoBeyond Meat beats on Q4 earnings, founder says 'we would be crazy not to invest in growth right now'Yahoo FinanceWhat to watch in the markets: Friday, February 28Yahoo Finance Video