Morgan Stanley Inst U.S. Real EstateHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMore...YAHOO_FINANCESearchSign inMailSign in to view your mailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)Morgan Stanley Inst U.S. Real EstateDavid Kathman, CFA, Ph.D. (david.kathman@morningstar.com),Zain Akbari, CFA (zain.akbari@morningstar.com),David Swartz (david.swartz@morningstar.com),Abhinav Davuluri, CFA (abhinav.davuluri@morningstar.com),Zain Akbari, CFA (zain.akbari@morningstar.com),Miriam Sjoblom, CFA (miriam.sjoblom@morningstar.com),Samiya Jmili (samiya.jmili@morningstar.com),Mark Cash (mark.cash@morningstar.com),Jeroen Siecker (jeroen.siecker@morningstar.com),Soo Romanoff (soo.romanoff@morningstar.com),Joshua Aguilar (joshua.aguilar@morningstar.com)MorningstarJanuary 8, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareen-US Experience is a positive attribute here. Ted Bigman has run this fund since its 1995 inception and is the driving force behind its strategy. His long and mostly successful tenure, along with the depth of the team supporting him, earns the fund an Above Average People rating. Bigman, who is a managing director at Morgan Stanley MS, has also run Morgan Stanley Institutional International Real Estate MSUAX since 1997, Morgan Stanley Institutional Global Real Estate MRLAX since 2006, and Morgan Stanley Institutional Global Infrastructure MTIPX since 2010. None of these funds have been particularly strong performers over the past decade, but Bigman's strategy has faced numerous headwinds during this time. Prior to joining Morgan Stanley in 1995, Bigman spent eight years managing real estate portfolios for CS First Boston.B.J. Grant was named comanager on April 30, 2014, after having been an analyst on the fund since 2002. Three dedicated analysts aid Bigman and Grant on this fund (and the associated separate accounts and UCITS fund). Two have been with the fund for at least a decade, and one (Josh Attie) joined the team in 2014 after more than 10 years as a sell-side analyst for Citigroup and Deutsche Bank. A fourth longtime analyst left in 2016. Bigman has separate analyst teams for the international real estate fund and the global infrastructure fund. A somewhat concentrated portfolio that's not afraid to make subsector bets. Manager Ted Bigman has flexibility when positioning this fund. He keeps it somewhat concentrated at 45-55 positions that represent all the major real estate property sectors. While he is aware of the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index's weightings, he often builds significant over- and underweightings in subsectors based upon his outlook. Turnover was a modest 39% in 2018 versus 73% for the category average.As of Sept. 30, 2019, the fund had below-average exposure to net lease, data centers, industrials, and healthcare, areas that have been strong performers but were trading at a premium to Bigman's estimates of their intrinsic value. He thinks the market is wrong in perceiving net-lease REITs as defensive, and he thinks the perception of data-center REITs as a play on cloud computing has made them more expensive than they should be. On the other hand, the fund is overweight in subsectors trading at a discount to their NAV, including retail REITs like top holding Simon Property Group SPG and office REITs such as Vornado Realty Trust VNO. Retail REITs have been hurt by the troubles of big mall retailers, as well as the threat of Internet retailers, but Bigman thinks the problems are overblown and that mall REIT stocks are cheap relative to the private market values of their holdings. It's a similar story with office REITs, which Bigman thinks the market is treating too pessimistically. A sensible process run by an experienced manager. This fund earns an Above Average Process rating thanks to the disciplined strategy that manager Ted Bigman has developed over the years. He and his team use a mix of broad market data and fundamental research to find U.S. REITs and real estate operating companies whose share prices don't reflect the value of the underlying assets. The team's NAV calculations attempt to quantify the value of a REIT's total assets, including existing properties and any projects under development. This sensible approach points Bigman toward property sectors and individual REITs that are attractively priced relative to their historical valuations and versus peers.Bigman and team look at regional data such as occupancy and employment trends and the impact of any new projects coming on line. They also adjust their models to account for transactions in the public and private markets, which often indicate how much buyers are willing to pay for certain property types. The top-down research helps confirm which property sectors look attractive and influence the fund's over- and underweightings relative to the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index.This process is applied to a broader investment universe than is sometimes the case. The fund may hold both REITs and REOCs, which are similar to REITs except that they receive different tax treatment and aren't required to distribute as much of their profits to shareholders. This fund is designed to give exposure to the U.S. real estate market via REITs and real estate operating companies. Specialty Still a solid U.S. REIT fund, despite its recent struggles. With a deep and experienced management team employing a disciplined value-oriented process, Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate has more to offer than its recent poor returns might suggest. Its I, IR, and IS shares earn Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze, while its more expensive share classes earn Neutral ratings.Story continuesOne of this fund's best features is lead manager Ted Bigman and Morgan Stanley's global listed real assets team. Bigman founded the team in 1995 and has headed it up since then, making him one of the longest-tenured real estate fund managers. The team he has assembled is also quite seasoned; two of the three analysts for this fund have been with the team for more than 15 years, as has comanager B.J. Grant.This fund is the U.S.-only version of Morgan Stanley's global real estate strategy; that strategy, highly disciplined and value-oriented, is another attractive feature here. Bigman and his team look for U.S. real estate stocks that are fundamentally strong but trading below the net asset value of their underlying properties. That approach has worked quite well over most of the fund's 25-year history, leading to some of the real estate Morningstar Category's best returns between 1995 and 2015.However, the fund has struggled in recent years, when most of the hottest REIT sectors (such as data centers, cell towers, industrials, and net lease) have been driven by factors other than real estate fundamentals and have become expensive relative to their net asset value. Conversely, the sectors that look cheap relative to NAV, notably retail REITs, have only fallen further. Bigman has stuck to his guns, arguing that the recent dislocation between REIT valuations and fundamentals is not sustainable over the long run and will eventually correct itself. Regardless, the recent struggles do make sense given the fund's valuation discipline, and its excellent results over its first 20 years earn Bigman the benefit of the doubt. 837 Morgan Stanley Investment Management houses some talented investors but is still finding its footing organizationally. It earns a Neutral Parent rating. Morgan Stanley's investment management aspirations have come full circle. It sold its Van Kampen lineup of retail offerings after the financial crisis to focus institutionally, only to reverse course more recently with a broad distribution push. Its parent company seems hopeful that MSIM will make greater contributions to the bottom line, which could put pressure on asset-gathering. On the plus side, leadership resources have increased. Investment head Dan Simkowitz, in place since 2015, oversees the division exclusively, unlike his predecessor, who also ran Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Brian Weinstein, formerly of BlackRock, joined in early 2018 to reinvigorate MSIM's fixed-income team and improve its presence in the industry. The firm is mulling additional strategy launches, though these efforts are in the early stages and unproven.MSIM remains committed to its actively managed equity teams and lets them operate autonomously. It willingly seeds money to promising investors with unique approaches, which has worked to its advantage with rising star Kristian Heugh but presents key-person risk. Indeed, the firm plans to merge away three strategies run by another up-and-comer who moved to Morgan Stanley's private equity division. Morgan Stanley Investment Management makes a growth push. 2018-10-31T13:07:00 2018-10-31T18:07:00Z A decent long-term record, but with recent struggles. Through Dec. 31, 2019, this fund's three-, five-, and 10-year returns all ranked in the real estate category's bottom decile and trailed the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index. Its 15- and 20-year returns looked somewhat better but still trailed the category and benchmark. However, its 11% annualized return since April 1, 1995 (a month after its inception) is the second-best out of the 11 real estate funds that have been around as long. As of January 2020, it has Morningstar Risk Ratings of Average over the trailing 10 years and Above Average over the trailing three and five years.Despite poor 10-year returns, the fund ranked in the category's top quartile three times in that span, including two years (2010 and 2014) when it gained around 30%. These periods of good performance have been offset by stretches when manager Ted Bigman's contrarian approach has been out of sync with the REIT market, causing the fund to trail its peers. It struggled in 2011 and 2012 partly because of its large hotel exposure, and during the past few years it has been hurt by its underweighting in hot subsectors such as data centers and cell towers, which have been driven by factors other than real estate characteristics. Those underweightings accounted for much of the fund's poor 2017, 2018, and 2019 results, combined with Bigman's preference for out-of-favor retail and office REITs. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. F00000PO6K Still a solid U.S. REIT fund, despite its recent struggles. With a deep and experienced management team employing a disciplined value-oriented process, Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate has more to offer than its recent poor returns might suggest. Its I, IR, and IS shares earn Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze, while its more expensive share classes earn Neutral ratings.One of this fund's best features is lead manager Ted Bigman and Morgan Stanley's global listed real assets team. Bigman founded the team in 1995 and has headed it up since then, making him one of the longest-tenured real estate fund managers. The team he has assembled is also quite seasoned; two of the three analysts for this fund have been with the team for more than 15 years, as has comanager B.J. Grant.This fund is the U.S.-only version of Morgan Stanley's global real estate strategy; that strategy, highly disciplined and value-oriented, is another attractive feature here. Bigman and his team look for U.S. real estate stocks that are fundamentally strong but trading below the net asset value of their underlying properties. That approach has worked quite well over most of the fund's 25-year history, leading to some of the real estate Morningstar Category's best returns between 1995 and 2015.However, the fund has struggled in recent years, when most of the hottest REIT sectors (such as data centers, cell towers, industrials, and net lease) have been driven by factors other than real estate fundamentals and have become expensive relative to their net asset value. Conversely, the sectors that look cheap relative to NAV, notably retail REITs, have only fallen further. Bigman has stuck to his guns, arguing that the recent dislocation between REIT valuations and fundamentals is not sustainable over the long run and will eventually correct itself. Regardless, the recent struggles do make sense given the fund's valuation discipline, and its excellent results over its first 20 years earn Bigman the benefit of the doubt. 837 Morgan Stanley Investment Management houses some talented investors but is still finding its footing organizationally. It earns a Neutral Parent rating. Morgan Stanley's investment management aspirations have come full circle. It sold its Van Kampen lineup of retail offerings after the financial crisis to focus institutionally, only to reverse course more recently with a broad distribution push. Its parent company seems hopeful that MSIM will make greater contributions to the bottom line, which could put pressure on asset-gathering. On the plus side, leadership resources have increased. Investment head Dan Simkowitz, in place since 2015, oversees the division exclusively, unlike his predecessor, who also ran Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Brian Weinstein, formerly of BlackRock, joined in early 2018 to reinvigorate MSIM's fixed-income team and improve its presence in the industry. The firm is mulling additional strategy launches, though these efforts are in the early stages and unproven.MSIM remains committed to its actively managed equity teams and lets them operate autonomously. It willingly seeds money to promising investors with unique approaches, which has worked to its advantage with rising star Kristian Heugh but presents key-person risk. Indeed, the firm plans to merge away three strategies run by another up-and-comer who moved to Morgan Stanley's private equity division. Morgan Stanley Investment Management makes a growth push. 2018-10-31T13:07:00 2018-10-31T18:07:00Z A decent long-term record, but with recent struggles. Through Dec. 31, 2019, this fund's three-, five-, and 10-year returns all ranked in the real estate category's bottom decile and trailed the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index. Its 15- and 20-year returns looked somewhat better but still trailed the category and benchmark. However, its 11% annualized return since April 1, 1995 (a month after its inception) is the second-best out of the 11 real estate funds that have been around as long. As of January 2020, it has Morningstar Risk Ratings of Average over the trailing 10 years and Above Average over the trailing three and five years.Despite poor 10-year returns, the fund ranked in the category's top quartile three times in that span, including two years (2010 and 2014) when it gained around 30%. These periods of good performance have been offset by stretches when manager Ted Bigman's contrarian approach has been out of sync with the REIT market, causing the fund to trail its peers. It struggled in 2011 and 2012 partly because of its large hotel exposure, and during the past few years it has been hurt by its underweighting in hot subsectors such as data centers and cell towers, which have been driven by factors other than real estate characteristics. Those underweightings accounted for much of the fund's poor 2017, 2018, and 2019 results, combined with Bigman's preference for out-of-favor retail and office REITs. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. F00000ZWAB Still a solid U.S. REIT fund, despite its recent struggles. With a deep and experienced management team employing a disciplined value-oriented process, Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate has more to offer than its recent poor returns might suggest. Its I, IR, and IS shares earn Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze, while its more expensive share classes earn Neutral ratings.One of this fund's best features is lead manager Ted Bigman and Morgan Stanley's global listed real assets team. Bigman founded the team in 1995 and has headed it up since then, making him one of the longest-tenured real estate fund managers. The team he has assembled is also quite seasoned; two of the three analysts for this fund have been with the team for more than 15 years, as has comanager B.J. Grant.This fund is the U.S.-only version of Morgan Stanley's global real estate strategy; that strategy, highly disciplined and value-oriented, is another attractive feature here. Bigman and his team look for U.S. real estate stocks that are fundamentally strong but trading below the net asset value of their underlying properties. That approach has worked quite well over most of the fund's 25-year history, leading to some of the real estate Morningstar Category's best returns between 1995 and 2015.However, the fund has struggled in recent years, when most of the hottest REIT sectors (such as data centers, cell towers, industrials, and net lease) have been driven by factors other than real estate fundamentals and have become expensive relative to their net asset value. Conversely, the sectors that look cheap relative to NAV, notably retail REITs, have only fallen further. Bigman has stuck to his guns, arguing that the recent dislocation between REIT valuations and fundamentals is not sustainable over the long run and will eventually correct itself. Regardless, the recent struggles do make sense given the fund's valuation discipline, and its excellent results over its first 20 years earn Bigman the benefit of the doubt. 837 Morgan Stanley Investment Management houses some talented investors but is still finding its footing organizationally. It earns a Neutral Parent rating. Morgan Stanley's investment management aspirations have come full circle. It sold its Van Kampen lineup of retail offerings after the financial crisis to focus institutionally, only to reverse course more recently with a broad distribution push. Its parent company seems hopeful that MSIM will make greater contributions to the bottom line, which could put pressure on asset-gathering. On the plus side, leadership resources have increased. Investment head Dan Simkowitz, in place since 2015, oversees the division exclusively, unlike his predecessor, who also ran Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Brian Weinstein, formerly of BlackRock, joined in early 2018 to reinvigorate MSIM's fixed-income team and improve its presence in the industry. The firm is mulling additional strategy launches, though these efforts are in the early stages and unproven.MSIM remains committed to its actively managed equity teams and lets them operate autonomously. It willingly seeds money to promising investors with unique approaches, which has worked to its advantage with rising star Kristian Heugh but presents key-person risk. Indeed, the firm plans to merge away three strategies run by another up-and-comer who moved to Morgan Stanley's private equity division. Morgan Stanley Investment Management makes a growth push. 2018-10-31T13:07:00 2018-10-31T18:07:00Z A decent long-term record, but with recent struggles. Through Dec. 31, 2019, this fund's three-, five-, and 10-year returns all ranked in the real estate category's bottom decile and trailed the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index. Its 15- and 20-year returns looked somewhat better but still trailed the category and benchmark. However, its 11% annualized return since April 1, 1995 (a month after its inception) is the second-best out of the 11 real estate funds that have been around as long. As of January 2020, it has Morningstar Risk Ratings of Average over the trailing 10 years and Above Average over the trailing three and five years.Despite poor 10-year returns, the fund ranked in the category's top quartile three times in that span, including two years (2010 and 2014) when it gained around 30%. These periods of good performance have been offset by stretches when manager Ted Bigman's contrarian approach has been out of sync with the REIT market, causing the fund to trail its peers. It struggled in 2011 and 2012 partly because of its large hotel exposure, and during the past few years it has been hurt by its underweighting in hot subsectors such as data centers and cell towers, which have been driven by factors other than real estate characteristics. Those underweightings accounted for much of the fund's poor 2017, 2018, and 2019 results, combined with Bigman's preference for out-of-favor retail and office REITs. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's costliest quintile. Such high fees stack the odds heavily against investors. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we don't think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Neutral. F00000MMUN Still a solid U.S. REIT fund, despite its recent struggles. With a deep and experienced management team employing a disciplined value-oriented process, Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate has more to offer than its recent poor returns might suggest. Its I, IR, and IS shares earn Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze, while its more expensive share classes earn Neutral ratings.One of this fund's best features is lead manager Ted Bigman and Morgan Stanley's global listed real assets team. Bigman founded the team in 1995 and has headed it up since then, making him one of the longest-tenured real estate fund managers. The team he has assembled is also quite seasoned; two of the three analysts for this fund have been with the team for more than 15 years, as has comanager B.J. Grant.This fund is the U.S.-only version of Morgan Stanley's global real estate strategy; that strategy, highly disciplined and value-oriented, is another attractive feature here. Bigman and his team look for U.S. real estate stocks that are fundamentally strong but trading below the net asset value of their underlying properties. That approach has worked quite well over most of the fund's 25-year history, leading to some of the real estate Morningstar Category's best returns between 1995 and 2015.However, the fund has struggled in recent years, when most of the hottest REIT sectors (such as data centers, cell towers, industrials, and net lease) have been driven by factors other than real estate fundamentals and have become expensive relative to their net asset value. Conversely, the sectors that look cheap relative to NAV, notably retail REITs, have only fallen further. Bigman has stuck to his guns, arguing that the recent dislocation between REIT valuations and fundamentals is not sustainable over the long run and will eventually correct itself. Regardless, the recent struggles do make sense given the fund's valuation discipline, and its excellent results over its first 20 years earn Bigman the benefit of the doubt. 837 Morgan Stanley Investment Management houses some talented investors but is still finding its footing organizationally. It earns a Neutral Parent rating. Morgan Stanley's investment management aspirations have come full circle. It sold its Van Kampen lineup of retail offerings after the financial crisis to focus institutionally, only to reverse course more recently with a broad distribution push. Its parent company seems hopeful that MSIM will make greater contributions to the bottom line, which could put pressure on asset-gathering. On the plus side, leadership resources have increased. Investment head Dan Simkowitz, in place since 2015, oversees the division exclusively, unlike his predecessor, who also ran Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Brian Weinstein, formerly of BlackRock, joined in early 2018 to reinvigorate MSIM's fixed-income team and improve its presence in the industry. The firm is mulling additional strategy launches, though these efforts are in the early stages and unproven.MSIM remains committed to its actively managed equity teams and lets them operate autonomously. It willingly seeds money to promising investors with unique approaches, which has worked to its advantage with rising star Kristian Heugh but presents key-person risk. Indeed, the firm plans to merge away three strategies run by another up-and-comer who moved to Morgan Stanley's private equity division. Morgan Stanley Investment Management makes a growth push. 2018-10-31T13:07:00 2018-10-31T18:07:00Z A decent long-term record, but with recent struggles. Through Dec. 31, 2019, this fund's three-, five-, and 10-year returns all ranked in the real estate category's bottom decile and trailed the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index. Its 15- and 20-year returns looked somewhat better but still trailed the category and benchmark. However, its 11% annualized return since April 1, 1995 (a month after its inception) is the second-best out of the 11 real estate funds that have been around as long. As of January 2020, it has Morningstar Risk Ratings of Average over the trailing 10 years and Above Average over the trailing three and five years.Despite poor 10-year returns, the fund ranked in the category's top quartile three times in that span, including two years (2010 and 2014) when it gained around 30%. These periods of good performance have been offset by stretches when manager Ted Bigman's contrarian approach has been out of sync with the REIT market, causing the fund to trail its peers. It struggled in 2011 and 2012 partly because of its large hotel exposure, and during the past few years it has been hurt by its underweighting in hot subsectors such as data centers and cell towers, which have been driven by factors other than real estate characteristics. Those underweightings accounted for much of the fund's poor 2017, 2018, and 2019 results, combined with Bigman's preference for out-of-favor retail and office REITs. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. FOUSA00DOP Still a solid U.S. REIT fund, despite its recent struggles. With a deep and experienced management team employing a disciplined value-oriented process, Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate has more to offer than its recent poor returns might suggest. Its I, IR, and IS shares earn Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze, while its more expensive share classes earn Neutral ratings.One of this fund's best features is lead manager Ted Bigman and Morgan Stanley's global listed real assets team. Bigman founded the team in 1995 and has headed it up since then, making him one of the longest-tenured real estate fund managers. The team he has assembled is also quite seasoned; two of the three analysts for this fund have been with the team for more than 15 years, as has comanager B.J. Grant.This fund is the U.S.-only version of Morgan Stanley's global real estate strategy; that strategy, highly disciplined and value-oriented, is another attractive feature here. Bigman and his team look for U.S. real estate stocks that are fundamentally strong but trading below the net asset value of their underlying properties. That approach has worked quite well over most of the fund's 25-year history, leading to some of the real estate Morningstar Category's best returns between 1995 and 2015.However, the fund has struggled in recent years, when most of the hottest REIT sectors (such as data centers, cell towers, industrials, and net lease) have been driven by factors other than real estate fundamentals and have become expensive relative to their net asset value. Conversely, the sectors that look cheap relative to NAV, notably retail REITs, have only fallen further. Bigman has stuck to his guns, arguing that the recent dislocation between REIT valuations and fundamentals is not sustainable over the long run and will eventually correct itself. Regardless, the recent struggles do make sense given the fund's valuation discipline, and its excellent results over its first 20 years earn Bigman the benefit of the doubt. 837 Morgan Stanley Investment Management houses some talented investors but is still finding its footing organizationally. It earns a Neutral Parent rating. Morgan Stanley's investment management aspirations have come full circle. It sold its Van Kampen lineup of retail offerings after the financial crisis to focus institutionally, only to reverse course more recently with a broad distribution push. Its parent company seems hopeful that MSIM will make greater contributions to the bottom line, which could put pressure on asset-gathering. On the plus side, leadership resources have increased. Investment head Dan Simkowitz, in place since 2015, oversees the division exclusively, unlike his predecessor, who also ran Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Brian Weinstein, formerly of BlackRock, joined in early 2018 to reinvigorate MSIM's fixed-income team and improve its presence in the industry. The firm is mulling additional strategy launches, though these efforts are in the early stages and unproven.MSIM remains committed to its actively managed equity teams and lets them operate autonomously. It willingly seeds money to promising investors with unique approaches, which has worked to its advantage with rising star Kristian Heugh but presents key-person risk. Indeed, the firm plans to merge away three strategies run by another up-and-comer who moved to Morgan Stanley's private equity division. Morgan Stanley Investment Management makes a growth push. 2018-10-31T13:07:00 2018-10-31T18:07:00Z A decent long-term record, but with recent struggles. Through Dec. 31, 2019, this fund's three-, five-, and 10-year returns all ranked in the real estate category's bottom decile and trailed the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index. Its 15- and 20-year returns looked somewhat better but still trailed the category and benchmark. However, its 11% annualized return since April 1, 1995 (a month after its inception) is the second-best out of the 11 real estate funds that have been around as long. As of January 2020, it has Morningstar Risk Ratings of Average over the trailing 10 years and Above Average over the trailing three and five years.Despite poor 10-year returns, the fund ranked in the category's top quartile three times in that span, including two years (2010 and 2014) when it gained around 30%. These periods of good performance have been offset by stretches when manager Ted Bigman's contrarian approach has been out of sync with the REIT market, causing the fund to trail its peers. It struggled in 2011 and 2012 partly because of its large hotel exposure, and during the past few years it has been hurt by its underweighting in hot subsectors such as data centers and cell towers, which have been driven by factors other than real estate characteristics. Those underweightings accounted for much of the fund's poor 2017, 2018, and 2019 results, combined with Bigman's preference for out-of-favor retail and office REITs. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, and based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we don't think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Neutral. FOUSA00KZ5 Still a solid U.S. REIT fund, despite its recent struggles. With a deep and experienced management team employing a disciplined value-oriented process, Morgan Stanley Institutional U.S. Real Estate has more to offer than its recent poor returns might suggest. Its I, IR, and IS shares earn Morningstar Analyst Ratings of Bronze, while its more expensive share classes earn Neutral ratings.One of this fund's best features is lead manager Ted Bigman and Morgan Stanley's global listed real assets team. Bigman founded the team in 1995 and has headed it up since then, making him one of the longest-tenured real estate fund managers. The team he has assembled is also quite seasoned; two of the three analysts for this fund have been with the team for more than 15 years, as has comanager B.J. Grant.This fund is the U.S.-only version of Morgan Stanley's global real estate strategy; that strategy, highly disciplined and value-oriented, is another attractive feature here. Bigman and his team look for U.S. real estate stocks that are fundamentally strong but trading below the net asset value of their underlying properties. That approach has worked quite well over most of the fund's 25-year history, leading to some of the real estate Morningstar Category's best returns between 1995 and 2015.However, the fund has struggled in recent years, when most of the hottest REIT sectors (such as data centers, cell towers, industrials, and net lease) have been driven by factors other than real estate fundamentals and have become expensive relative to their net asset value. Conversely, the sectors that look cheap relative to NAV, notably retail REITs, have only fallen further. Bigman has stuck to his guns, arguing that the recent dislocation between REIT valuations and fundamentals is not sustainable over the long run and will eventually correct itself. Regardless, the recent struggles do make sense given the fund's valuation discipline, and its excellent results over its first 20 years earn Bigman the benefit of the doubt. 837 Morgan Stanley Investment Management houses some talented investors but is still finding its footing organizationally. It earns a Neutral Parent rating. Morgan Stanley's investment management aspirations have come full circle. It sold its Van Kampen lineup of retail offerings after the financial crisis to focus institutionally, only to reverse course more recently with a broad distribution push. Its parent company seems hopeful that MSIM will make greater contributions to the bottom line, which could put pressure on asset-gathering. On the plus side, leadership resources have increased. Investment head Dan Simkowitz, in place since 2015, oversees the division exclusively, unlike his predecessor, who also ran Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. Brian Weinstein, formerly of BlackRock, joined in early 2018 to reinvigorate MSIM's fixed-income team and improve its presence in the industry. The firm is mulling additional strategy launches, though these efforts are in the early stages and unproven.MSIM remains committed to its actively managed equity teams and lets them operate autonomously. It willingly seeds money to promising investors with unique approaches, which has worked to its advantage with rising star Kristian Heugh but presents key-person risk. Indeed, the firm plans to merge away three strategies run by another up-and-comer who moved to Morgan Stanley's private equity division. Morgan Stanley Investment Management makes a growth push. 2018-10-31T13:07:00 2018-10-31T18:07:00Z A decent long-term record, but with recent struggles. Through Dec. 31, 2019, this fund's three-, five-, and 10-year returns all ranked in the real estate category's bottom decile and trailed the FTSE NAREIT Equity REITs Index. Its 15- and 20-year returns looked somewhat better but still trailed the category and benchmark. However, its 11% annualized return since April 1, 1995 (a month after its inception) is the second-best out of the 11 real estate funds that have been around as long. As of January 2020, it has Morningstar Risk Ratings of Average over the trailing 10 years and Above Average over the trailing three and five years.Despite poor 10-year returns, the fund ranked in the category's top quartile three times in that span, including two years (2010 and 2014) when it gained around 30%. These periods of good performance have been offset by stretches when manager Ted Bigman's contrarian approach has been out of sync with the REIT market, causing the fund to trail its peers. It struggled in 2011 and 2012 partly because of its large hotel exposure, and during the past few years it has been hurt by its underweighting in hot subsectors such as data centers and cell towers, which have been driven by factors other than real estate characteristics. Those underweightings accounted for much of the fund's poor 2017, 2018, and 2019 results, combined with Bigman's preference for out-of-favor retail and office REITs. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's costliest quintile. Such high fees stack the odds heavily against investors. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we don't think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Neutral. F00000VEH5 LiveMorgan Stanley Inst U.S. Real EstateReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextThe Truth About These Viral Kitchen ChairsPopular MechanicsColony Credit Real Estate (CLNC) Meets Q4 Earnings EstimatesZacksVirgin Galactic Stock Loses Buy Ratings As Wall Street Turns To Waiting GameInvestor's Business DailyFinancial firms discussing coronavirus contingency plans with regulators - officialReutersMarc Jacobs Sells West Village TownhouseArchitectural DigestBiocontainment expert on coronavirus: There's no need for average people to panic yetYahoo FinanceA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoStock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoIndia Stocks Extend Slide, Heading for Worst Week in Four YearsBloomberg'Stuck in no man’s land': A working mom details dealing with her sick child's student loan billYahoo FinanceMost face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo FinanceDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance Video