TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Feb 13, 2014) -
The Thompson Hotel and The Chase Hospitality Group are pleased to officially announce the opening of Colette Grand Café and Bakery in its new location in the King West District. The new Toronto, ON upscale eatery will be taking over Scarpetta's current location in the Thompson Hotel. The new eatery will complement the already outstanding, diverse, and vibrant food and beverage program at the Thompson Hotel.The Thompson Hotel and The Chase Hospitality Group are excited about this upcoming partnership, which will be a welcome addition to the current Food & Beverage program at the Thompson Hotel. The new innovative concept will resonate with the Central King West Community and will be providing an offering not currently met in the area.The new downtown restaurant will have multiple offerings: Colette, the upscale eatery with seating for 100, and Colette Grand Café & Bakery, which will offer quick service dining and a pastry and retail counter with a full array of grab and go options for those looking for on-the-go delicacies.Steven Salm, Michael Kimel, and Michael Steh, the team behind The Chase and The Chase Fish and Oyster, renowned for its addictive flavor profiles, upscale service and sophisticated design, will be creating a modern and inspired approach to traditional French cuisine. Overseen by the company's Executive Chef Michael Steh, the menu will introduce a variety of French experiences, presented socially, and in keeping with the company's thoughtful approach.Having already opened two downtown restaurants, the group is launching their third in what is prime real estate in the Central King West District, a popular destination for young, urban professionals who frequent, work and live in the area. The ground floor restaurant will be entirely reinvented by Chase Hospitality Group and Audax Architecture."We are excited to announce the opening of Colette Grand Café and Bakery. The restaurant, café, and outdoor pavilion will be a wonderful addition to the Central King West district. We love the neighborhood, and cannot wait for Colette to be a part of it," stated Steven Salm.Colette Grand Café and Bakery is located at 550 Wellington Street, inside The Thompson Hotel in Toronto, ON. For more information, please visit www.colettetoronto.com. For media inquiries, please contact Jocelyn Black Jocelyn@deckagency.com or call (647) 880 2966. Colette Grand Café and Bakery will be opening its doors Spring 2014.About The Chase Hospitality GroupChase Hospitality Group is a premier hospitality company that develops, manages, and operates The Chase, and The Chase Fish and Oyster in Toronto. The name CHASE, is derived from, CULINARY, HOSPITALITY, ATMOSPHERE, SERVICE, and ENTERTAINMENT. The group was established in early 2013 with a vision to redefine hospitality in North America by combining thoughtful and inspired culinary experiences with genuine, approachable, and humbled service. http://www.chasehospitalitygroup.com/About Commune Hotels and ResortsFormed in October 2011, Commune Hotels & Resorts is an international, multi-brand lifestyle hotel group comprising the luxury lifestyle Thompson Hotels brand, Joie de Vivre Hotels, a collection of independently branded boutique hotels, and Tommie, a new, youthfully-minded brand launching in 2015. The San Francisco-based company manages more than 40 hotels and resorts and is focused on global expansion, targeting locations in Canada, Asia and Europe. Since its formation, the company has announced its acquisition of and/or management of Chicago's historic Chicago Athletic Association, Thompson Chicago (formerly Sutton Place Hotel), Miami Roosevelt Hotel and The Epiphany in Palo Alto, California, among others. For more information, please visit www.communehotels.com.