LOS ANGELES, CA--(Marketwired - Feb 12, 2014) - unite4:good (www.unite4good.org), the global movement for humanity, announces the first ever unite4:humanity event in Los Angeles on February 27th to be held at the Sony Lot in association with Variety (www.variety.com ). This star-studded event will be held during Hollywood's biggest week and will serve to amplify the unite4:good mission of promoting positivity, inspiring charitable engagement and empowering acts of kindness and service in order to create a positive shift in our global society. Everyday heroes selected by unite4:good's Founding Affiliates and coaltion4:good will be honored alongside the entertainment industry's brightest stars and some of the world's most influential leaders in media, politics, business and philanthropy.The night will include the presentation of the Unity Recognition Award to President Bill Clinton, 42nd President of the United States. The Award recognizes an outstanding individual who has used their voice to unite people around the world and create long-lasting, sustainable and positive impact.Variety Magazine will present a series of unite4:humanity awards to entertainment industry icons who have created positive, inspirational or socially conscious media and entertainment in the areas of film, television and music. "The purpose behind this unite4:humanity event is to create awareness about the unite4:good movement, which asks each and every individual to create positivity around them, and to engage in acts of kindness and service. It is an honor to bring together these extraordinary everyday heroes with some of the most recognizable and philanthropic individuals, organizations and businesses in the world," said Anthony Melikhov, Founder of unite4:good. "The evening is a celebration of goodness, with every dollar raised committed to sustaining both the movement and the programs we have put into place with all of our coalition non-profits. With Variety as our partner, we believe that this will be a night to remember for all.""We are thrilled to be partnering with unite4:good on their inaugural unite4:humanity event. Variety has a long-standing commitment to supporting the philanthropic endeavors of the entertainment community and we applaud unite4:good's ongoing efforts in encouraging the industry to engage in acts of kindness and service and for celebrating their efforts," said Michelle Sobrino-Stearns, Publisher, Variety.Additional highlights of the evening will include:Five everyday heroes will be awarded $25,000 unite4:good grants to further the work they are doing to positively impact their local communities in the areas of Arts, Animal Welfare, Environment, Health and Human Services and Youth Development. Beginning February 10th, the public will be asked to visit unite4good.org to vote, with the recipient of the most votes receiving an additional Impact Grant of $50,000. All five outstanding citizens will be recognized on stage during the evening.
The evening will serve as the official launch of the unite4:good social media platform for good, enabling local and national organizations to create profiles and interact with inspired, likeminded individuals from around the world to raise funds and awareness, create calls to action and launch initiatives. The online platform will pass 100% of all donations through to the charities and additionally reward individuals who "do good" through unite4:good's relationship with corporate partners.
The night will highlight unite4:good's coaltion4:good, which includes 15 Founding Affiliate organizations who have each received a unite4:good grant to create programming. These organizations include: ASPCA, Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Conservation International, Do Something.org, the Eva Longoria Foundation, Exploring the Arts, Feeding America, the Joyful Heart Foundation, Keep a Child Alive, Whitaker Peace and Development Initiative, Partnership for a Healthier America, Points of Light, The Trevor Project and the U.S. Fund for UNICEF.
For more information, please visit unite4good.org.
Please join the conversation online at Facebook: facebook.com/unite4good.org and Twitter: @unite4good using hashtags #U4Gunite4humanity #unite4good.About unite4:good unite4:good is a revolutionary global movement that will establish a new standard whereby acts of kindness and service become so idolized that everyone chooses to make them a part of their daily life. Through empowering action, creating new programs and uniting individuals and organizations in innovative ways, we will provoke positive and lasting change on a global scale. unite4:good will encourage everyone to inspire, empower, share and love. (unite4good.org).About Variety: Variety and Variety.com provide the industry with the most comprehensive coverage of film, television and the digital space. With respected and experienced news reporters in Los Angeles, New York and around the world, Variety marries its historic coverage of the entertainment business with a recently revamped website and weekly print magazine offering readers the in-depth news coverage needed to remain competitive in the ever-changing entertainment industry. The Variety Group - Variety, Variety.com, Variety Insight, LA 411, NY 411 -- is owned by Variety Media, LLC, a division of Penske Media Corporation.