Click here for high-resolution versionMoreZHANJIANG, CHINA--(Marketwired - Aug 30, 2013) - Last Chance for Animals (LCA) and Animal Equality have joined forces to infiltrate the dog meat trade in China and expose the cruelty behind the slaughter of dogs for food. Undercover investigators, pretending to be part of the dog meat industry, entered several slaughterhouses and markets. Shocking footage and photos were taken of workers dragging terrified dogs across blood stained floors, bashing their skulls with metal poles and slitting their throats with knives. Other dogs, in paralyzing fear, are forced to watch while awaiting their turn to be tortured to death. Millions of people believe that cat and dog slaughter for human consumption is absolutely unacceptable.At one slaughterhouse in Zhanjiang, the investigators noticed one trembling dog (later named Vita) trying to get their attention by scratching a metal door with her paw and staring with pleading eyes. The investigator explained, "We gained the trust of the workers, we then tricked them and managed to take Vita out." Shortly after her rescue, Vita was taken to Europe and adopted by a caring family.Vita, like millions of dogs every year in China, was probably stolen from a family before being butchered and sold for meat. It is estimated that approximately 50,000 dogs are killed each day in China for their meat or fur.LCA and Animal Equality have launched an international campaign against the China Dog Meat trade and are working with several organizations in China, such as Guangzhou Volunteer Center, to close down dog slaughterhouses and markets in China. More than 190,000 people have already signed the petition at www.VoicelessFriends.org asking Chinese officials to end the cruel dog meat trade.About Last Chance for Animals Last Chance for Animals is an international animal rights organization based in Los Angeles that has been active for nearly three decades. Founded and led by animal expert, author, and actor, Chris DeRose, LCA's roots began in exposing the inherent cruelty of vivisection. LCA fights for the rights of animals by conducting investigations that expose animal cruelty, launching public awareness campaigns, pushing animal friendly legislation and helping prosecute animal abusers. Website: www.LCAnimal.orgAbout Animal Equality Animal Equality is an international animal rights organization present in the UK, Spain, Italy, Germany, Mexico, Venezuela and India. Animal Equality conducts investigations in slaughterhouses, farms and zoos and has received international media coverage (e.g. the BBC, The Times, The Sunday Express, La Repubblica and El Mundo). Website: www.AnimalEquality.net.