LUXEMBOURG, LUXEMBOURG--(Marketwired - Dec 2, 2013) -
Servers.com, the talk of hosting domain name professionals for many years, finally found its rightful place at XBT, one of the largest dedicated hosting, IP Transit and colocation provider of the European Union. The domain name was acquired for 300.000 US dollars as a highest bid in an auction, which took place in Dallas US.Through ROOT S.A., XBT has been dominating the european market and with an aggressive acquisitions strategy in US and Asia is now ready to expand further and become the one-stop professional source for corporate server infrastructure outsourcing, high-load web hosting and data handling.ROOT S.A. is Luxembourg's leading provider located in the heart of Europe, offering servers with direct and low latency connectivity to London, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Madrid and Paris.The company's client portfolio boasts a vast range of demanding institutions, from high frequency Forex trading arbitrage firms to online gaming and video streaming companies for whom low latency and security is a prerequisite. XBT has developed advanced expertise in developing and implementing secure and resilient server infrastructure for its customers in the most demanding industries.After many years of development and intensive testing, XBT has finalized solid methods for scaling its boutique enterprise offerings up to a much larger audience improving the overall quality of service, combined with blazing fast technical support, zealous customer service and monitoring. All of those key features together with new pricing policy, scaled up to meet surging global demand making new Servers.com platform as the European standard for quality and security at a fair price."Servers.com domain name acquisition will help create an automated and standardized hosting platform for small to medium scale business customers (SMB). The platform will offer much greater diversity of service formats in one package, which gives the customers all the needed solutions and business tools under one roof, including flexible targeting and service pricing based on user's action data analysis. The new domain name will let us consolidate our regional brands in one", said Rajesh Kumar Mishra, CFO of XBT Holding Ltd.About XBT XBT Holding is a privately owned global hosting, network solutions and web development provider founded in 2005, with offices in eight countries. Worldwide Enterprise and SMB customers rely on XBT's international expertise and comprehensive services, including dedicated servers, collocation, shared and VPS hosting, CDN solution, high-performance network services, business continuity, Cloud storage and security services. User-based services include cloud computing, domain registration, website development and mobile applications. The company operates a worldwide proprietary network through five carrier-neutral data centers and 13 points of presence in the United States, Europe and Asia, with more than 16,000 servers throughout nine subsidiaries. XBT partners with most major Tier 1 networks to ensure high-speed international connectivity up to 1.500 Gbps. XBT is now one of the fastest-growing companies in the Internet infrastructure industry. Visit XBT online at http://www.xbt.com.