MIAMI, FL--(Marketwired - July 21, 2013) -  People in the market for high end skin care products with active ingredients can take advantage of the limited time offer from MyReviewsNow.net and partner Dermstore. Through July 21, all Vivan products from Dermstore have been marked down by 20 percent. Every product order will qualify for free shipping to any address within one to three days, and shoppers can choose a free gift with purchase.
The Dermstore is a leading source for all products related to skin and beauty. From the Clarisonic face washing brush to organic skin care for babies, Dermstore has taken care to stock only the finest products. In addition to hosting specials and sales on a regular basis, shipping is always free to any address, and shoppers can choose a free gift with every purchase.
"Taking care of your skin is important at any age, and Vivan offers a broad selection for many different types of skin," commented Todd Maxwell of MyReviewsNow. "Now is the time for people to take an active approach to their skin care with the discounted Vivan Skin Care line. What makes the offer sweeter is that shipping is quick and free, and every order qualifies for a gift from Dermstore!"
People who are ready to browse the broad selection of beauty products available at Dermstore can head over to the Cosmetics & Beauty Portal at MyReviewsNow.net. Once on the shopping website, consumers will have access to exclusive sales for a number of popular online stores, and they will be able to learn about new coupon codes and new products on the shopping blog. In addition, shoppers can take advantage of the friendly shopping community at MyReviewsNow.net. They can check out consumer reports left by other shoppers about their personal experiences with products and stores, or they can submit their own reviews.
For more information or media inquiries, contact Todd Maxwell at info(at)myreviewsnow(dot)net. Press release issued by MyReviewsNow.net.Visit Our MyReviewsNow Google+ Page.