CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwired - Sep 16, 2013) -
Petrominerales (PMG.TO) (BVC:PMGC)confirms that our dividend for the third quarter of 2013 will be paid on October 15, 2013 to Petrominerales shareholders of record on September 30, 2013. The third quarter 2013 dividend payment will be CDN$0.125 per Petrominerales share, payable in cash or shares at the election of each shareholder. The ex-dividend date is September 26, 2013.Share Dividend PlanPetrominerales' Share Dividend Plan (SDP) provides shareholders with the ability to receive their dividends in the form of shares of Petrominerales issued at a 5% discount to the average price of Petrominerales' shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange for the five trading days prior the dividend payment date.Registered shareholders that wish to enroll in the SDP must complete and deliver an SDP enrollment form to Computershare Trust Company of Canada at least five business days prior to the dividend record date. Beneficial shareholders should contact their nominee (brokers, investment dealers, financial institutions or other) that holds their shares regarding enrollment in the SDP and applicable deadlines. Participation in the SDP is optional and all fees associated with the SDP are paid by Petrominerales.For information regarding the SDP, or the SDP enrollment form for registered shareholders, please contact Computershare Trust Company of Canada, telephone 1-800-564-6253 or visit www.investorcentre.com/service. Additional information relating to our dividend is available on our website at www.petrominerales.com/investor-information/dividends/.BVC Shareholders Shareholders of record entitled to receive a dividend for Petrominerales shares acquired through the Bolsa de Valores de Colombia ("BVC"), who are not enrolled in the SDP, will receive the Colombian peso equivalent of their dividend entitlement, calculated based on the US dollar to Colombian peso exchange rate on the day of the conversion. Shareholders who acquired their shares through the BVC may experience a slight delay in the receipt of their cash entitlement as a result of local currency exchange procedures. Shareholders who acquired their shares on the BVC, and wish to enroll in the SDP, should contact their nominee for enrollment.Petrominerales Ltd. is an international oil and gas company operating in Latin America since 2002. Our high-quality land base and multi-year inventory of exploration and development opportunities in Colombia, Perú and Brazil provide long-term growth potential for years to come.