InMobi enters into agreement with LINE Corporation to promote LINE Free Coins to app developers globally. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreSINGAPORE--(Marketwired - Nov 20, 2013) -
InMobi, the world's largest independent mobile ad network, today announced that it has entered into an agreement with LINE Corporation to promote LINE Free Coins to app developers globally.LINE Free Coins is an application promotion service available through the LINE platform on Android. It offers virtual currency called LINE Coins to users that install specific applications recommended by the Free Coins site. Users can then purchase stickers with the LINE Coins they obtain.LINE will work with the InMobi global sales network to promote LINE Free Coins to app developers, who are looking to acquire users in the following markets -- Japan, Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, and Hong Kong. App developers that opt to work with LINE can make use of LINE Free Coins to promote their apps to LINE users in these seven markets.Kazusuke Obi, Vice President and Regional Director, Japan at InMobi said, "We are excited to be partnering with LINE, a worldwide leader in messaging applications. This collaboration will help LINE leverage the InMobi advertising network and offer global app developers a new and powerful way to acquire users through its LINE Free Coins. InMobi provides a global platform in the mobile ecosystem, and we hope to open up new markets with LINE through this partnership."The world market for mobile apps continues to grow rapidly, with an increasing trend for western app developers to target newer markets in Asia. Likewise, app developers in Asia are trying to expand to geographies beyond their home markets. The partnership between LINE and InMobi demonstrates the role of global ad networks in fueling these expansions.About LINE Corporation Based in Japan, LINE Corporation develops and operates the LINE app for smartphones. Since launching in June 2011, the LINE app has grown into a global service used in 230 countries, ranking first in the free app category in 60 countries. LINE offers free one-to-one and group messaging, as well as free domestic and international voice and video calls. LINE also includes a wide array of social elements such as fun and expressive stickers, a personal Home, a Timeline, and numerous LINE family apps, including LINE games and LINE camera. For more information about LINE, please visit http://linecorp.com/en/.About InMobi InMobi enables the world's leading brands, developers, and publishers to engage global consumers through mobile advertising. InMobi platforms leverage advances in big data, user behavior, and cloud-based architectures to simplify mobile advertising for its customers. Recognized by MIT Technology Review as one of the 50 Disruptive Companies of 2013, InMobi is the world's largest independent mobile ad network, engaging 691 million consumers across 165 countries.To learn more, visit www.inmobi.com, or follow us on Twitter @InMobi. Discover the latest mobile insights at www.inmobi.com/insights/. Developers, start monetizing instantaneously by downloading our SDK at www.inmobi.com/SDK.