NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- CHANGE IN RATINGS
Atwood Oceanics
was upgraded at Goldman Sachs to buy from neutral. $68 price target. Earnings growth appears on the verge of acceleration, Goldman said.
Boise Cascade
was upgraded at DA Davidson to neutral from underperform. Valuation call, based on a $30 price target, DA Davidson said.
Diamond Offshore
was upgraded at Goldman Sachs to neutral from sell. $85 price target. Company can post 49% earnings growth in 2014 and the stock yields 4.8%, Goldman said.
Devon Energy
was downgraded at J.P. Morgan to neutral from overweight. $62.50 price target. Strategic decisions will likely do little to increase shareholder value, J.P. Morgan said.
Factset
was upgraded at Piper Jaffray to overweight from neutral. $121 price target. Financial markets and the competitive landscape are improving, Piper Jaffray said.
Also see: Morning Briefing: 10 Things You Should Know >>
Flextronics
was downgraded at Deutsche Bank to hold from buy. Valuation call, based on an $8 price target, Deutsche Bank said.
Starwood
was upgraded at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch to buy. $84 price target. Company is the best positioned in the U.S. market and comps are easing in China, BofA/Merrill said.
Starwood was upgraded at Morgan Stanley to overweight. $79 price target. Industry RevPAR growth should accelerate in the second half of the year, Morgan Stanley said.
Hewlett-Packard
was upgraded at Jefferies to hold. $24 price target. Company is executing well and keeping a tight lid on costs, Jefferies said.
Also see: Have Weak Sales Hurt Wal-Mart's Value? >>
KT
was downgraded to sell at TheStreet Ratings.
Patterson-UTI
was downgraded at Goldman Sachs to sell from neutral. Valuation call, as the stock is up 20% year to date, Goldman said. $24 price target.
Republic Services
was upgraded at Keybanc to buy from hold. $41 price target. Industry tone has meaningfully improved over the last several quarters, Keybanc said.
Sanmina
was downgraded at Deutsche Bank to sell from hold. Valuation call, as the stock is up 26% year to date, Deutsche Bank said. $11 price target.
Seagate
was upgraded at Deutsche Bank to buy from hold. $46 price target. Expect better unit growth and sales mix, Deutsche Bank said.
Stifel Financial
was upgraded to buy at TheStreet Ratings.
STOCK COMMENTS/EPS CHANGES
American Eagle
price target and estimates were reduced at UBS to reflect lower comp sales and gross margins. Price target goes to $22, UBS said.
Boeing
target was boosted at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch. Shares are now seen reaching $120. Company should deliver higher 737 and 787 deliveries, BofA/Merrill said. Buy rating.
Boeing
price target and estimates were raised at Citigroup to reflect FCF deployment target of 80%, said Citigroup. Price target goes to $118.
Also see: Morning Briefing: Should You Give Your Realtor a Second Chance? >>
Choice Hotels
price target was raised at UBS to $40. Valuation was rolled forward, said UBS. RevPAR data for the economy and midscale markets showed encouraging trends this week, UBS said.
Eaton Vance
numbers were raised at Credit Suisse. Shares are now seen reaching $38. Company is seeing higher asset flows and compensation is falling, Credit Suisse said. Underperform rating.
Hewlett-Packard
price target and estimates were raised at UBS. Earnings estimates were increased given improving profit and cash flow, said UBS. Price target goes to $26.
Lowe's
estimates were reduced at UBS. Earnings estimates were reduced on weak first-quarter results plagued by unseasonable weather, said UBS.
Staples
price target and estimates were raised at UBS as management makes investments to reinvent the business, making it more relevant (though pressuring margins), said UBS. Price target goes to $15.
Target
price target and estimates were cut at UBS. Estimates were reduced as the Canada stores are costing more than expected. Price target goes to $73.
TJX
price target and estimates were raised at Citigroup. Estimates in 2014 were increased to reflect renewed conviction in Europe, eComm and inventory availability, said Citigroup. Price target goes to $60.
Toll Brothers
estimates were increased through 2014 at JMP Securities. Company is leveraged to the housing cycle recovery, JMP Securities said. Outperform rating and $44 price target.
Workday
price target and estimates were raised at UBS. Estimates were raised on the first-quarter earnings beat and strong demand for cloud software, said UBS. Price target goes to $70.
>To submit a news tip, email: tips@thestreet.com.
Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.
EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.Why Car Prices Vary From City To City7 Towns That Really Want Your Sports Team10 Greenest Cars of 2013