For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – May 23, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Bank of America Corp. (BAC), JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM), Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS) and The Wendy’s Co. (WEN).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Wednesday’s Analyst Blog: Debt-Ceiling Alarm Bell TollsWith the $16.4 trillion debt ceiling getting restored on May 19, alarm bells have started tolling across the country to address this highly politicized and polarizing issue to give it a fresh lease of life.However, calming the frayed nerves, the U.S. Treasury has confirmed recently that higher-than-expected tax receipts and a hefty one-time payment by Fannie Mae to the tune of about $59.4 billion has deferred hitting the debt ceiling until at least the Labor Day.
But will delaying the inevitable be really helpful for the U.S. unless some corrective measures are implemented? Let us dig a little deep to find answers to these questions.
The History
The U.S. Treasury has defined the debt limit as "the total amount of money that the U.S. government is authorized to borrow to meet its existing legal obligations, including Social Security and Medicare benefits, military salaries, interest on the national debt, tax refunds, and other payments."The financial prudence behind having a debt ceiling lies in the fact that it allows a form of accountability and enables the government to borrow further to meet its revenue shortfall, thereby giving it an opportunity to identify and target the underlying causes for the overspending. Or is it?
If having the diction of debt ceiling would have helped, the U.S. would not have required modifying it again and again. History reveals that since 1960 Congress has acted 78 separate times to permanently raise, temporarily extend, or revise the debt limit – 49 times under Republican presidents and 29 times under Democrats. So the obvious question then arises: Is the debt ceiling at all required?
The Fallout
The government seemed to have learned from its past mistakes, and the U.S. had a balanced federal budget with expenses tallying exactly with income in 2001.But, as they say, ‘History repeats itself’ -- the U.S. economy again fell back in to the trap primarily due to three factors: the Bush-era tax cuts that added roughly $2 trillion to the national debt over the last decade; the Gulf wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, which added an additional $1.1 trillion; and the Great Recession, which led to the collapse of several financial giants like Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch, which was later acquired by Bank of America Corp. (BAC). Several other banks like JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM), Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) also felt the after-effects of the prolonged Great Recession.
The situation snowballed in to a crisis in 2011 when a periodic increase in debt ceiling was stalled by the Republicans, demanding a significant cut in federal spending. The crisis was eventually averted by the intervention of the President, but not until the U.S. had its casualty of a credit rating downgrade by Standard & Poors.The stage is again set for a showdown this fall, but the question remains: Is the U.S. prepared to riseup at last or sink further down?
The Lifeline
Although time is the best judge for this trillion-dollar question, the U.S. economy got a lifeline when data from the Treasury revealed that receipts for the six-month period ending Mar 2013 aggregated $1.2 trillion, up 12.4% year over year, versus a government spending of $1.8 trillion. This is equivalent to a year-to-date budget deficit of about $600 billion, the lowest since 2008.The better-than-expected revenues were attributable to higher income tax payments, up 14.7% year over year, and improved corporate profit taxes, up 18.6% year over year, in addition to a significant contribution from Fannie Mae.A relatively smaller yet noteworthy factor that pushed the revenue receipts was the underlying growth in the economy. Primarily, a dip in unemployment figures and ever-increasing stock price indices are the positive signs.
This averted possible ‘extraordinary measures’ by the Treasury as of now, allowing the federal government to finance its operations for about two months even after reaching the debt ceiling. These include 1) suspension of the sale of State and Local Government Series Treasury securities; 2) redemption of existing and the suspension of new investments in pension funds like the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund and the Postal Service Retirees Health Benefit Fund; 3) suspension of reinvestment of the Government Securities Investment Fund and 4) suspension of reinvestment of the Exchange Stabilization Fund.Story continuesBut will the Treasury be eventually forced to utilize these measures if an amicable solution of raising the debt limit is not reached between the Republicans and Democrats sometime in September.
As a separate cushion, the Republicans have deftly passed a bill that would allow the government to pay interest on debts as well as prop up Social Security payments, even if a status quo is maintained for the federal borrowing limit. Although the bill promises to prevent any missed obligations that could trigger a formal default and pre-empt any potential debilitating shock to the economy, it eventually raises the debt limit by pushing these payments outside its purview.In other words, it would be detrimental to the economy, earning it the vicious tag of a "default" by another name, probably due to which the White House has promised to veto it.
The Epilogue
No matter what the warring political parties do, the thorny issue of a potential crisis due to a debt-ceiling hit still persists. The short-term initiatives are likely to offer a temporary respite, but the ramifications could lead a death-blow to the economy unless a balanced fiscal policy is eked out.As the U.S. stocks continue their unrelenting rally of reaching new all-time highs in most major indices, the market might be vulnerable to a correction any time soon. Only time will tell whether debt-ceiling alarm bells are indeed trigger for such an incident.Wendy’s Upgraded to Outperform We upgrade our recommendation on The Wendy’s Co. (WEN) from Neutral to Outperform based on decent first-quarter 2013 results reported earlier this month and increased earnings guidance despite volatility in the US quick-service restaurant industry.
Why the Upgrade?
On May 8, Wendy’s posted decent first quarter results and also increased its bottom line expectation for 2013. Even amid a volatile US quick-service restaurant industry marked by faltering consumer confidence and heightened competition, Wendy’s expects to record increased year-over-year profitability in each of the first three quarters of 2013, buoyed by sales leverage and cost saving initiatives.
In its recently-concluded first-quarter 2013, Wendy's reported adjusted earnings of 3 cents per share, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate as well as the year-ago earnings by a penny. Earnings in the quarter received a boost from top-line growth and margin expansion at the company-operated restaurants. The company’s ‘Right Price, Right Size Menu’ initiative also pushed up earnings during the quarter. Wendy’s continues to gain market share, driven by price value proposition and premium limited period offerings.
The company also raised its earnings per share guidance to reflect net cost savings from debt refinancing. Its adjusted earnings per share are now expected to be within the range of 20–22 cents per share, up from the prior expectation of 18–20 cents per share. The revised adjusted earnings per share range represents an estimated year-over-year increase of 18%–29%.
Basically, the company is in a transition mode since the sale of its counterpart Arby’s brand in 2011. Management expects to incur lower overhead expenses as it will only have to support a single brand. Going forward, several of its growth initiatives like elimination of unprofitable operations, restaurant reimaging, and expansion in domestic and overseas markets should bode well for Wendy’s. Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comRead the analyst report on BAC Read the analyst report on JPM Read the analyst report on GS Read the analyst report on MS Read the analyst report on WEN Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read article on zacks.com