American Express Company (AXP) Q4 2013 Results Earnings Call January 16, 2014 5:00 PM ETExecutivesRick Petrino - SVP, Investor RelationsJeff Campbell - Executive Vice President and CFOAnalystsMark DeVries - BarclaysSanjay Sakhrani - KBWKen Bruce - Bank of America Merrill LynchCraig Maurer - CLSAJames Friedman - SIGBill Carcache - Nomura SecuritiesChris Donat - Sandler O’NeillDon Fandetti - CitiBob Napoli - William BlairOperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the American Express Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode and later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions)As a reminder, today’s conference is being recorded. I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr. Rick Petrino. Please go ahead.Rick PetrinoThanks and welcome. We appreciate everyone joining us for today’s call. The discussion contains certain forward-looking statements about the company’s future financial performance and business prospects, which are based on management’s current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements are set forth within today’s earnings press release and earnings supplement, which were filed in an 8-K report and in the company’s other reports already on file with the SEC.The discussion today also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Information relating to comparable GAAP financial measures may be found in the fourth quarter 2013 earnings release, earnings supplement and presentation slides, as well as the earnings materials for prior periods that may be discussed. All of which are posted on our website at ir.americanexpress.com. We encourage you to review that information in conjunction with today’s discussion.Today’s discussion will begin with Jeff Campbell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer who will review some key points related to the quarter’s earnings through the series of slides included with the earnings documents distributed. Once Jeff completes his remarks, we will move to a Q&A session.With that, let me turn the discussion over to Jeff.Jeff CampbellWell, thanks Rick and good afternoon everyone. I am pleased to be here this afternoon to discuss the solid results across our businesses that we reported today for both the fourth quarter and full year 2013.Our performance in the quarter reflected healthy billed business intense revenue growth, a continuation of credit metrics being at historic lows, disciplined controlled operating expenses and as a result, solid earnings performance.Since this quarter does mark the end of the full year, I will be discussing our full year results, which we are also pleased with, as they help illustrate some important trends.During the quarter, we made several significant announcements in particular around signing new GNS partnerships and reaching separate settlement agreements with our merchants and regulators. In addition, we helped support small business entity for the fourth consecutive year. I will discuss some of these initiatives in more detail later on the call.I would say that there was some complexity to understanding our financial results this quarter. While the merchant settlement is the most significant new item, we also have a number of previously disclosed items that make the year-over-year comparisons more complex, including last year’s fourth quarter items, the sale of our publishing business at the beginning of October and the few other specific items which I will walk you through as I discuss our results.To begin with the summary of our Q4 results, you can see on Slide 2 that FX adjusted billed business growth was 9%. Given our spend centric business model, this was in the primary driver of our FX adjusted revenue growth of 6%. Both of these rates of growth are modestly above our full year growth levels, reflecting the uptick in the economy and our business that we saw as 2013 progressed.This level of revenue growth combined with our continued strong operating expense control this year drove net income to $1.3 billion in the quarter. This was up sharply from the prior year of course due to the items we incurred in the fourth quarter of 2012.Story continuesOur strong capital position allowed us to continue our share repurchase efforts, over the last four quarters we have spend $4 billion buying back shares, which cumulatively resulted in our average shares outstanding declining by 4% versus the prior year.To more meaningfully review the impact of these solid operating results and our share repurchase efforts on EPS, it’s important to realize that year-over-year comparisons are impacted by the three items recorded during the fourth quarter of last year, as well as this year’s merchant settlement.Regarding the settlement which we announced in late December, it resulted in expenses that lowered fourth quarter EPS this year by approximately $0.04, adjusted for this merchant settlement this year and the three items from the prior year, adjusted EPS for the fourth quarter increased from a $1.09 to $1.25.These solid results helped bring ROE for the period ending -- for the period ending December 31st to 28%. Overall, we feel good about our performance in the quarter, especially considering the continued moderate pace of the economic recovery.Turning now to the full year results for 2013 on slide three. For context, as we enter 2013, there are number questions about our ability to grow revenues and earnings per share in a slow growth environment.As you recall, billings and revenue growth have slowed over the second half of 2012 and there were concerns about the impact of tax increases and the microeconomic environment on our card that were base.In fact, 2013 did turn out to be a year of only modest economic growth. While we are encouraged by the recent strong sequential increase seen in the U.S. GDP growth rates, it is important to remember that the year-over-year increase in U.S. GDPs are in the first three quarters of 2013 was just 1.3%, 1.6% and 2.0%. It is this year-over-year increase that relates historically to our billed business growths.Given this challenging economic environment, we were please to be able to generate FX adjusted billings growth of 8% over the full year and FX adjusted revenue growth of 5%. Importantly, both of these metrics exhibited improving trends over the second half of 2013.Another key focus of our organization during 2013 was on disciplined control of our operating expenses. On our fourth quarter earnings call last year, we disclosed our goal of growing operating expenses excluding the Q4 ‘12 restructuring charge at less than 3% annually during 2013 and 2014. We more than met this goal during 2013.The strong control over operating expenses has enabled us to fund greater investments to grow our business and resources to meet our growing compliance demands, and to have increased financial flexibility in the face of a slow growth environment.You will recall that at our financial community meeting in February of last year, we laid out several scenarios illustrating our ability to achieve our on average and overtime earnings targets in a variety of economic environment.Given the slow growth GDP environment we experienced this year, our strong capital position and disciplined control of operating expenses were particularly important contributors to our financial performance.We were able to drive full year EPS of $4.88, which was 25% higher than last year. Our EPS has now grown at a 13% to compound annual growth rate since 2010 in line with our on average and overtime target to grow earnings per share by 12% to 15%.Over the same multi-year time period, our revenue CAGR has been 6%, well below our on average and overtime target of 8%, we generally feel positive about this performance given the slow growth economic environment.I would also remind you that back in 2010 there were concerns about the growth potential of our existing card businesses, particularly in an environment with lower levels of consumer spending and borrowing. Since that time, however, our performance has given us greater confidence in the continued growth prospects of our card businesses.Let’s turn now to the more detailed trends starting with billed business on Slide 4. Our billings growth rate remained healthy given the economy and improved slightly on a reported basis from 7% in Q3 to 8% in the current quarter. Billed business overall grew by 9% on an FX adjusted basis, so it’s consistent with the prior quarter.The USCS segment, which constituted about half of worldwide billed business, saw growth increased from 8% during Q3 to 9% in Q4. Open small business volumes have been a particularly fast growing part of our U.S. business and ended the year having achieved four consecutive quarters of double digit growth.As many of you know, we will be featuring a discussion on our open business as one of the topics at our upcoming financial community meeting.We were also pleased to see a modest uptick in growth rate in our GCS segment from 7% to 8% on an FX adjusted basis. We continue to see particularly strong volumes in GNS, which grew by 16% year over year on an FX adjusted basis. GNS volume growth continues to be highest in the JAPA region, powered by strong growth in China and Japan.Looking at billed business by geographic region on Slide 5. Consistent with our focus on expanding our business globally, total international volumes continued to grow at a faster pace than the total company and were up 11% year over year on an FX adjusted basis.Billed business growth within the U.S. region also improved from 8% to 9% during the current quarter. EMEA continues to be our slowest growth region given the lower rates of economic growth within Europe.Moving on to loans, the other key revenue driver. We continue to see steady growth in loan balances as shown on Slide 6. Worldwide loans grew by 3% versus the prior year, up from 2% last quarter. Our growth rate in the U.S. was 4% which is up slightly from Q3 and continues to outpace the industry average.Putting it all together down in the revenue slide, you see on Slide 7 that overall revenue growth was 5% on a reported basis and on an FX adjusted basis was 6%. Consistent with our spend-metric model, this revenue growth was primarily driven by higher discount revenue from increased spending volumes.Secondarily, revenue growth was aided by net interest income increasing 11% versus the prior year as we experienced lower funding cost year over year along with the increase in average loan balances. The sale of our publishing business depressed the growth rate of other revenue and impacted total revenue growth by approximately 1% during the fourth quarter.For this quarter, this impact on total revenue was largely offset by the greater amount of card member reimbursements recorded in the prior year. Going forward, the loss of publishing revenue in and of itself will depress total revenue growth by a similar percentage point or a little less over each of the next three quarters.You see on Slide 7 that the two biggest components of our revenues -- discount revenue and net interest income as well as total revenues were all stronger in the fourth quarter than in the full year, reflecting the modest sequential strengthening we saw in the economy and our business.Turning now to provision where overall our credit metrics remained at all time low levels. Looking at the metrics highlighted on Slide 8, you can see that worldwide lending write-off rates, which were already at historically low levels, declined further during the fourth quarter and remained best in class. The delinquency rates remained consistent with the prior quarter.Now as a reminder, our objective is not necessarily to have the lowest possible write-off rate but is instead to achieve the best economics when we make investments. Therefore at some point we would expect that lending write-off rates will increase from today’s historically low levels.Slide 9 shows that our lending reserve coverage levels also remained relatively consistent with the prior quarter after considering the normal seasonal increase in loan balances. We believe that our coverage levels remain appropriate given the risk level inherent in the portfolio.Finally, as you can see on slide 10, for the full year, provision increased by 6% as the benefits from reserve releases were smaller during 2013 than they were in 2012. While write-off rates have continued to improve and are at historic lows, the rate of improvement in 2013 was slower than what we experienced during the prior year.In the fourth quarter, provision was lower by 17% this year, which is somewhat out of pattern with the full year results as we benefited from a modest reserve release in this year’s Q4 which is a modest reserve build than in a prior year Q4.Turning now from the revenue side to the expense side on slide 11, story gets a bit more complex because of the three items we recorded in Q4 2012 and the merchant settlement this quarter. As of this, I will walk you through each individual line item in subsequent slides.I would make the overall comment that a key to our 2013 results was maintaining disciplined control of our expenses, particularly within operating expenses. This allowed us to achieve solid financial results, while continuing to invest for both our current and future customers.One item I would like to talk about while still on slide 11 is the tax rate. You see that our tax rate during the quarter was 34%, a bit higher than we’ve been trending and expecting. As we closed the year, the final geographic mix of where we generate income came in a little less favorable than we’ve been expecting and drove the higher rate for the quarter. This brought the full year effective tax rate to 32.1%.Let me now start the more detailed expense discussion with operating expense since controlling operating expenses to make our business more efficient has been key to providing additional resources for growth initiatives, and by any measure our teams did a great job this year of more than meeting our ambitious operating expense goals.Slide 12 shows you some of the details of our operating expenses during both the quarter and the full year. And clearly a number of individual lines here were impacted by specific items both this year and last. So, I won’t take the time to go in all of those details but I do want to call out two items.First, other net expense in the quarter includes approximately $66 million of expenses related to the merchant settlement I discussed earlier in which we announced on December 19th. As part of the settlement, we agreed to pay a reasonable attorney fees up to a maximum total of $75 million plus up to $4 million to notify merchants of the settlement terms.A small portion of these costs were accrued for in prior periods, resulting in a net impact of $66 million in the fourth quarter. Second, I would note that sale of our publishing business depressed operating expense growth by little more than 1% in the quarter.So putting it all together on slide 13, you see that excluding the Q4 ‘12 restructuring charge, full year 2013 adjusted operating expenses were flat versus the prior year and remained well below our commitment to grow operating costs at less than 3% annually during 2013. Looking ahead, we remain committed to achieving our goal of having operating expenses grow by less than 3% again during 2014.So moving to rewards expense, a key source of value for our card members. After excluding the cost of the enhancements to the URR or ultimate redemption rate estimation process for U.S. card members in the fourth quarter of 2012, adjusted rewards expense were like 13% during the quarter as illustrated on slide 14.This 13% growth rate in adjusted rewards expense is somewhat higher than the volume growth in our MR and co-brand products due predominantly to two items, a benefit in the prior year due to a decline in the weighted average cost per point and an increase in current year quarter due to an enhancement in the URR estimate process in our largest countries outside the U.S.With this enhancement, the global URR will remain at 94%. As a reminder, loyalty and reward programs are one of our major competitive advantages. Based on their success, we have expanded them during the last few years to offer broader opportunities for cardmembers to earn and redeem points.Turning then to Slide 14 in our marketing and promotion line where significant amount of our investments in growth are. You see expenses up 12% in Q4 as we took advantage of opportunities to invest in the business while still delivering solid EPS growth.We were pleased to be able to invest more in this area as the economy and the business strengthened as the year progressed. We continue to see many attractive opportunities in the marketplace, including those for new customer acquisitions.During the fourth quarter we were particularly pleased to support the Fourth Annual Small Business Saturday. Momentum for this event continues to grow led by local businesses around the world. During the current year we supported Small Business Saturday in six countries, including the launch of the event in Australia, Israel and South Africa.Importantly this event helps us build relationships with all businesses across both our merchant network and our cardmember base. This is critical to both the continued strength we see with small business cardmembers and our continual efforts to expand small business merchant coverage.So more broadly, we believe that we continue to have a number of attractive investment opportunities across both our card businesses and from newer initiative. These opportunities exist across our existing card business -- these opportunities, excuse me, across our existing card businesses include increasing our penetration of B2B, middle market and small business spending continuing to deepen our relationships amongst affluent customers, continuing to expand our reach to a broader segment of consumers and expanding our merchant network particularly among smaller merchants.While all of these areas represent sizable opportunities within the U.S. market, we believe that the long-term potential of these opportunities is even greater internationally where our relative share position today is still significantly lower than it is in the U.S.As I mentioned on last quarter’s earnings call, we also target a portion of our investments for longer-term opportunities, including many initiatives in the digital space. Over the past several years we have increasingly focused our efforts on two large initiatives: reloadable prepaid, our products that help you move and manage your money as well as our Loyalty Partner rewards coalition program.Both of these efforts continue to ramp up, and we believe that they provide significant opportunities for growth. This growth, however, will occur over a longer period.Last, a common theme across all of these new initiatives is that they improve our ability to reach new customer segments and help make our brand more inclusive.So given the breadth and depth of opportunities that we have which are financially sound, one of the challenges we have is how to balance our investments with our performance against our on average and over time financial targets.As I mentioned earlier, you did see us increase our investment spending in the latter half of 2013 as the economy and our business improved. Historically this approach has led to fluctuations in our investment levels over time. For example, during 2010 and 2011 our operating and marketing expenses increased as a result of our strategy to re-invest a portion of the Visa MasterCard settlement gains and the benefits from improving credit performance back into growing the business.We are completing our planning process for 2014 currently and well as always, be thoughtful and prioritized which investments we will fund. Of relevance here are our plans to create a joint-venture to accelerate the transformation of our global business travel division.As an update, the negotiations for the joint venture continue to advance as we had planned. Our best estimate for closing date remains the second quarter 2014. Upon closing, it is expected that our partners will infuse a $700 million to $1 billion capital contribution into the new joint venture. American Express would contribute the assets of our business - travel business. As a result, we would expect to realize a meaningful P&L gain upon the close of the transaction. This could offer us some additional financial flexibility during 2014.So turning now to capital, our strong capital position and the sizeable amount of new capital we generate through net income each quarter provide significant flexibility. This allows us to balance the capital needs in our businesses, our desire to remain strong capital ratios and the potential for significant capital returns to our shareholders.The benefits of our strong capital position were on display all year as we returned 81% capital generated in the year to shareholders. We did this while modestly strengthening our already strong capital ratio year-over-year as you can see on slide 16.As usual, you do our capital ratios decline slightly sequentially during the fourth quarter due to the seasonal increase in our loan and receivable balances. We did, of course, complete our submission for the 2014 CCAR process earlier this month and we will expect to hear back from the Fed about our submission in March.Like the rest of the industry, we have worked hard to continue to strengthen aspects of our capital planning processes which supports this critical effort. While it is too early to know how this process will play out for 2014, I will say personally that going through this planning process for the first time has furthered my own confidence and the strength of our business model and capital structure.Part of the strength has been our continuing efforts to evolve the mix of our funding sources which you can see on slide 17. We have worked hard to improve the diversity of our funding sources by driving a significant increase in the contribution from deposits over the last several years.At this point, we believe our funding mix should be relatively stable going forward. Overall, our liquidity position remained strong and we continue to hold enough cash to cover our next 12 months of funding maturities.Turning to other events of the last quarter, let me first make just a few more general comments on the two settlement announcements we made the financial aspects of which I have already touched on.During the quarter, we announced that we agreed to settle two antitrust class actions filed by U.S. merchants that challenged specific provisions in the company’s card acceptance agreements. The settlement agreement if approved will address certain merchant concerns while helping to ensure that American Express card members are treated fairly at point of sale.We also expected to limit the company’s exposure to future legal claims and ensure that any credit and charge, surcharge on American Express card transactions would be no more than the surcharge charge on competing credit for charge card products.The settlement is presently under-review by the court. Some of the merchants that have cases pending against the company have objected to the settlement. Any objections or concerns will be considered by the court as it determines whether to approve the settlement.During the quarter, we’ve also announced that we had reached settlements to resolve previously disclosed reviews of marketing and billing practices related to several discontinued products that were previously offered to card members. Marketing of the products included in these settlement was discontinued more than a year ago.Most of the card member reimbursements have already taken place and most of the cost associated with those reimbursements, as well as the fines were provided for in prior periods.The regulatory environment has evolved significantly and has heightened the focus that all the financial companies must have on their controls and processes. We take our regulatory obligations very seriously.As we have discussed, we continue to scrutinize and improve our card practices, regulators wants companies to be clear, transparent and fair to their customers, a goal that is very consistent with our own objective.As previously reported, American Express continues to conduct internal reviews designed to identify issues correct them and ensure that our products and practices need a high standard of quality.Before I conclude, I wanted to touch on one other item that has been getting a lot of attention. The recent data breach at Target. We continue to work closely with Target and law reinforcement on the investigations and we are closely monitoring the situation as it evolves.We have sophisticated monitoring systems and internal safeguards in place to protect cardmember accounts and to detect fraudulent activities. We have the appropriate broad controls in place on affected accounts and are continuing to take targeted actions as needed. We have seen minimal exposure thus far.The closed loop is a big advantage for us, especially in situations like this. Our relationships with cardmembers and merchants represent one of the reasons why our fraud rates are the lowest in the industry.So in summary, coming back to our financial results, we feel very good about our overall performance in the current economic environment. During the quarter we saw healthy billings growth and modest growth in loan balances which drove FX adjusted revenue growth of 6%. This revenue growth combined with historically low credit metrics, disciplined control of operating expenses, and a strong capital position allowed us to generate a healthy growth in EPS while still investing in the growth opportunities we see in the marketplace.Looking forward we continue to believe that the flexibility of our business model enables us to deliver significant value to our shareholders.With that, I’ll turn the call back to the operator for your questions. I would ask that you limit yourself to one question with one follow-up so that we can ensure we give as many people as possible the chance to participate. Operator?Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with American Express Company CEO