Intel Corporation (INTC) Q4 2013 Earnings Conference Call January 16, 2014 5:00 PM ETExecutivesMark Henninger - Director, Investor RelationsBrian Krzanich - Chief Executive OfficerStacy Smith - Chief Financial OfficerAnalystsMark Lipacis - JefferiesRoss Seymore - Deutsche BankGlen Yeung - CitiStacy Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & CoChristopher Danely – JPMorganTristan Gerra - BairdJohn Pitzer - Credit SuisseAlex Gauna - JMP SecuritiesVivek Arya - Bank of AmericaMike McConnell - Pacific CrestHans Mosesmann - Raymond JamesJim Covello - Goldman SachsOperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Intel Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, today’s conference is being recorded.I would now like to turn the conference over to Mark Henninger, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.Mark HenningerThank you, Jamie and welcome everyone to Intel’s fourth quarter 2013 conference call. By now you should have received a copy of our earnings release and the CFO commentary that goes along with that. If you have not received both documents, they are currently available currently on our Investor website, intc.com. I am joined today by Brian Krzanich, our CEO and Stacy Smith, our Chief Financial Officer. In a moment, we will hear brief remarks from both of them followed by Q&A.Before we begin, let me remind everyone that today’s discussions contain forward-looking statements based on the environment as we currently see it and as such, it does include risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our press release for more information on the specific risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Also if during this call, we use any non-GAAP financial measures or references, we will post the appropriate GAAP financial reconciliation to our website, intc.com.So with that, let me hand it over to Brian.Brian KrzanichThanks Mark. Q4 was a solid finish to a year of transition both for the computing market and for Intel. We spent the year of building a foundation in important growing segments of computing and as a result we are better positioned to enter 2014. Importantly, the big way of innovation inside the company has also improved.I will touch on each of these things, but I would like to start with our results. The company’s revenue was down 1% for the year driven by a declining PC payout. The PC Client Group was down 4% for the year, but the business began and stabilized and actually grew a bit in the fourth quarter achieving all-time records of i5 and i7 unit shipments. The desktop business was particularly strong in Q4 growing 11% over last year. In the data center, we finished the year up 7% with record solar unit and revenue. Cloud was up 35%. Storage was up 24%. And high performance computing was up 18%. Enterprise, however, fell short of our expectations for the fourth quarter and the year as we overestimated the rate of recovery among corporate buyers. In our other businesses the intelligent systems business we saw a growth of 21% in retail up 16% and transportation up 21% in the year. Networking grew 31% for the year and rounding out the list, our NAND and (indiscernible) businesses grew 15% and 4% respectively both achieving record revenue.When I spoke with you in November I shared my vision. If a device computes it does it with Intel from the internet of things to the data center. I outlined the areas that are changing to make that vision a reality. Among the changes was a shift towards a more outside in view of our industry and an intense focus on bringing innovation to market quickly. Last week at CES there was evidence of our progress as we demonstrated technologies that were on our road map just six months ago. Technologies that we expect will be available this year. We showed you Edison, an Intel based platform for internet of things in the form of an SD card. We unveiled several innovative wearable solution and we announced Intel device for technology to hardened IA based Android (indiscernible).Our disclosure in November of a new smartphone and tablet road map that will include SoFIA our first IA SSD with integrated comps later this year is further evident that we’re innovating and bringing products to market at faster pace. Looking ahead 2014 will be an exciting year as we build further on this new foundation. We have established a goal to grow our tablet volumes to more than 40 million units. Within an emphasis on the value segment. As we’re finishing 2013 with more than 10 million units and a strong book of design wins we’re off to a good start.Story continuesWe also exit the year having made important strides on our 14-nanometer process technology. Yields improved significant in Q4 putting it squarely on track with the Broadwell production later this quarter. Our customers and partners also continue to evolve the computing exercise. By the time we enter the back to school selling season we have nearly 70 unique 2-in-1 designs with outstanding battery life and performance across a range of price points in those markets. And later this quarter we will launch Ivy Bridge-EX which will bring the largest generation to generation improvement in MT Server performance in 2010. Our work to improve our velocity and position the company for the future is containing isn't done. But our recent progress is testament to what’s possible when we focus and bring all of those aspects to bear. We are building on a foundation upon which we will compute the years to come and we’re beginning this year in a better position than we have been last year.With that let me turn the call over to Stacy Smith.Stacy SmithThanks Brian. The fourth quarter came in consistent with expectations with the returns of financial growth and was a solid ending to a challenging year. For the fourth quarter revenue came in at $13.8 billion up 3% from a year ago. PC Client Group revenue was flat from year ago. Our data center group grew 8% from the year ago and relative to our expectations at the beginning of the quarter we saw higher PC Client Group revenue partially offset by lower growth than our data center group. Gross margin of 62% was flat till third quarter and one point above our guidance.Operating income for the fourth quarter was $3.5 billion up 12% from a year ago. Earnings per share was $0.51 up 6% from the year ago. For full year 2013 revenue was $52.7 billion, gross margin was 60%, operating income was $12.3 billion, net income was $9.6 billion and earnings per share was $1.89. Well the PC market was down on the year, we saw the market stabilize in the back half of the year with fourth quarter PC units up from a year ago. Additionally we saw strong tablet growth in the back half of the year and inclusive of PC and tablets are unit growth in the fourth quarter was up almost 10% from a year ago. We decreased inventory levels by almost $400 million in the fourth quarter and across the worldwide supply chain, inventory levels continue to be whole.Gross margin of approximately 60% in 2013 is down two points from 2012 driven by higher 14-nanometer factory startup cost. Spending and R&D and MG&A was $18.7 billion in 2013, 35% to revenues down from the forecasted at the beginning of the year at higher than our long term model. Operating income was $12.3 billion down 16% year-over-year.Earnings per share was $1.89 down 11% from a year ago. The business continued to generate significant cash with almost $21 billion of cash from operations in 2013. Total cash balance at the end of the year was roughly $20 billion, up approximately $2 billion from a year ago. We purchased $11 billion in capital assets, paid $4.5 billion in dividends and repurchased over $2 billion of stock.As we look forward to the first quarter of 2014, we are forecasting the midpoint of the revenue range at $12.8 billion, down 7% from the fourth quarter. This forecast is in line with the average seasonal decline for the first quarter. We are forecasting the midpoint of the gross margin range for the first quarter to be 59%. The 3 point decline from the fourth quarter is primarily driven by higher platform write-offs as we started pre-production builds of Broadwell and 14-nanometer and overall lower platform volumes in line with seasonal trends.Turning to 2014, we are planning for revenues to be approximately flat. We expect the Data Center Group revenue to be up in the low double-digits and PC Client Group revenue to be down in the mid-single-digits. We are forecasting the midpoint of our gross margin range at 60% flat to 2013. We expect startup cost to decline partially offset by the impact of tablets as we ramp our volume and provide contra revenue support to our customers. And we are forecasting spending for the year at $18.6 billion and expect capital spending of $11 billion both of which are approximately flat to 2013. Within the flat spending, we are advancing the strategy of the company by shifting investments towards the data center, tablets and low-power SoCs.The fourth quarter was a solid finish to a challenging year. Financially, the fourth quarter of 2013 was better than the fourth quarter of 2012. More importantly, we are making changes that continue to improve our competitive position. For devices that compute, our vision is if it computes, it does the best with Intel. Towards that end, we are well on our way to reinventing the personal computer. With all-in-ones, 2-in-1s, convertibles and detachables, the amount of innovation in the PC market is unprecedented. Building on this leadership, we will start production of wafers on Broadwell, a 14-nanometer product targeting these form factors in the first quarter. In the tablet market, we launched the Bay Trail SoC and have started to expand our footprint and market signature in this growing market. And in the internet of things market, we are bringing new architectures like internet of thing to build on our current leadership position. We are uniquely situated to benefit from the other end of the compute continuum as the infrastructure that supports all these devices expands.Our data center business continues to see robust growth as a result of the build out of the cloud and the exposure of devices that compute and connect to the internet. From 2013, we extended our leadership at the high end of the data center with the launch of the Ivy Bridge-based Xeon product line. And at the low end of the data center, we extended our leadership with the launch of Avoton targeting the micro-server market. We are planning to build on the foundation as we launched the Haswell-based Xeon family in 2014. At the foundation of this innovation, we continue to enhance more growth faster than the rest of the industry. This gives us the world’s highest performance and lowest power transistors and will result in a growing cost advantage over time.With that, let me turn it back over to Mark.Mark HenningerAlright. Thank you, Brian and Stacy. As we move on to the Q&A, as is our normal practice, we would ask each participant to ask one question and just one follow-up if you have one. Jamie, please go ahead and introduce our first questioner.Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with Intel Corporation CEO