Discover Palmetto, where innovative architecture and modern amenities are an instant hit with today's homebuyers. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreAZUSA, CA--(Marketwired - Jan 16, 2014) -  Spacious floorplans designed with all the fabulous flair you've been looking for. Incredible features such as first floor living suites, gourmet kitchens with center islands, loft spaces, and covered patios or private decks where you can entertain year round. Five-star amenities that make you feel like you're living in a resort and even walkability to the future Metro Gold Line boarding station. This is the beautiful reality of life at Palmetto by Brookfield Residential, the ultimate new-home buy at Rosedale, the San Gabriel Valley's #1 new master-planned community.Palmetto's innovative townhomes offer open living spaces that make entertaining a breeze, modern amenities, energy-efficient features, and all the style and substance Brookfield Residential is known for. With low prices starting from the $400,000s and smart interiors and flexible spaces to accommodate roommates, family members, or visiting guests, Palmetto has been carefully planned and highly amenitized to meet the needs of today's homebuyers.Designed to maximize privacy, Palmetto's Residence One gives roommates a layout that is perfect for their needs. Offering approximately 1,447 square feet of living space, a private bedroom and bath are located on the first floor with two additional bedrooms, two baths, and a great outdoor covered deck for entertaining upstairs.High style and great space highlight the approximate 1,732-square-foot Residence Two. The large living room, dining room, gourmet kitchen and private patio provide ample space for everyday living and entertaining on the main level. Upstairs, spacious bedrooms and a convenient loft area offer a private haven for everyone in the house.Residence Three offers approximately 2,090 square feet of uncommon comfort and convenience for an attached home. The first floor features a large living room, gourmet kitchen, dining room, bedroom, full bath and Brookfield Residential's signature launch space. Upstairs, three bedrooms, three baths and an optional loft give residents all the space they need."Palmetto is an affordable new-home option for upscale living within an amenity-rich setting in the thriving master-planned community of Rosedale," said Rocky Tracy, Vice President of Sales for Brookfield Residential. "Open floorplans give homeowners great living space, while the neighborhood's convenient location within walking distance to the future Metro Gold Line boarding station offers an additional layer of convenience for our buyers. They also love the incredible five-star amenities offered at Rosedale and the fact that they can walk throughout the community, take in the natural beauty, and be at the resort pool or hiking trails within a matter of minutes."The pedestrian-friendly, amenity-packed community of Rosedale has quickly become a favorite with homebuyers as they have discovered all that can be theirs in the heart of Azusa. New-home neighborhoods within the community have been ideally planned to live in harmony with nature in the scenic foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains. Rosedale has set aside 290 acres for open space. The future 5.5-acre Promenade Park, nine neighborhood parks, and The Resort, a two-acre community recreation center with an approximate 4,500 square-foot private clubhouse create a recreational haven for residents and all while offering the exceptional peace and serenity afforded by breathtaking views. For more details, visit www.LiveRosedale.com. Come 2015, living at Palmetto will be even more enriching with the opening of the future Metro Gold Line boarding station. Located between Citrus Avenue and Palm Drive, the station will be within walking distance from Palmetto, offering an easy, cost-efficient transportation alternative for work and play. For more information, visit www.foothillextension.org.Residents of Palmetto can also walk to the nearby Azusa Pacific University and Citrus Community College, while commuting to downtown LA and Orange and San Bernardino is easy with the nearby I-10 and 210 corridors. Old Town Pasadena's boutiques and cafes, as well as Westfield Santa Anita Mall, Westfield West Covina, Home Depot, Target, Trader Joe's and Costco, are also nearby.To visit Palmetto at Rosedale from Pasadena, take the I-210 traveling east and exit Azusa Ave. Turn right on Foothill Blvd., left on Palm, then right on The Promenade and follow the signs. From San Bernardino and Riverside counties, take the I-210 west, or the I-10, I-60 to the I-57 north and proceed to the I-210 west and exit Citrus Ave. Turn left on Foothill Blvd., right on Palm, then right again on The Promenade and follow the signs. The Palmetto Sales Office and Models Homes are open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Wednesdays from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. For more information, please call 888.576.4287 or visit www.BrookfieldSoCal.com. Due to the changing nature of Metro Gold Line construction activities, driving directions are subject to change. Prices are effective as of the date of publication.About Brookfield Residential Brookfield Residential Los Angeles is a premier lifestyle provider comprised of a dedicated, knowledgeable team of professionals with the passion and experience to craft exceptional new homes, neighborhoods and communities. From the goals of first time buyers to the prestige of luxury homes, we are proud to offer opportunities that embrace a diversity of aspirations. Respected as an award-winning innovator, we are recognized for delivering consistent quality, design details and an outstanding customer experience. Please visit BrookfieldSoCal.com for more information.Brookfield Residential Properties Inc. is a leading North American land developer and homebuilder with operations in eleven major markets. We entitle and develop land to create master-planned communities and build and sell lots to third-party builders, as well as to our own homebuilding division. We also participate in selected, strategic real estate opportunities, including infill projects, mixed-use developments, infrastructure projects, and joint ventures. Brookfield Residential is listed on the NYSE and TSX under the symbol BRP. For more information, visit BrookfieldRP.com.