LINCOLN, Neb. (AP) -- A Scottsbluff woman who served as a legal guardian to more than 600 people throughout Nebraska faces a felony theft charge after an audit found evidence that she misused state assistance payments to buy herself Christmas and birthday presents, Auditor Mike Foley said Monday.The announcement came after Judith Widener, the president of the Safe Haven, Inc., was arrested and booked into the Scotts Bluff County Jail. She was being held Monday afternoon on a $500,000 bond.Widener is accused of collecting payments that were intended for the court-appointed wards, even though some were dead or no longer in her care, according to a sworn statement filed by the Nebraska State Patrol. The State Patrol and local law enforcement began investigating Widener after auditors discovered the questionable payments.While the total amount misspent isn't yet known, state investigators subpoenaed Widener's bank records and found a complex array of credit cards and more than 40 bank accounts with more than $600,000, Foley said. Auditors pulled a small sample of transactions from Widener's bank records and identified more than $35,000 that she appeared to have taken, he said.Her accounting records revealed that she gave herself $500 Christmas and birthday gifts from the money at her disposal, and she also was involved with casino gambling, he said.Foley blamed the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services for poor management and oversight of the assistance programs. The two programs in question are the State Disability Program and Assistance to the Aged, Blind or Disabled. Both provide cash payments to cover food, clothing, shelter, and medical expenses for people who are unable to care for themselves."Once again, the citizens of Nebraska have seen their hard-earned tax dollars squandered by the state's largest agency of government," Foley said. "Clearly, the people who pay the bills have been disserved again."Widener made an appearance in court on Monday, but an attorney wasn't listed in online court records. A woman who answered the phone Monday at Safe Haven, Inc., a Gering-based nonprofit, declined to comment.Foley said Widener's wards were scattered all over the state, including 112 that were located in Lancaster County — more than 400 miles away from her home and office. Twenty were identified in Douglas County, on the other side of the state.Foley said that, when confronted, Widener confessed to both auditors and law enforcement that she knowingly misappropriated the money.He also said officials with the state Department of Health and Human Services received warnings from both the U.S. Social Security Administration and the Veterans Administration, who raised questions about her dealings with state wards. A judge had also forbidden Widener from being named to any more legal guardianship relationships in Lancaster County, he said.In a statement, DHHS spokeswoman Kathie Osterman acknowledged that the department erroneous payments to Widener for three people for whom she was not the legal guardian. But Osterman said vulnerable adults who have court-appointed guardians are wards of the courts, not the department, and guardians are required by law to account for their activities."While we disagree with many of the auditor's findings, we acknowledge that in some cases there have been inaccurate payments, in many cases due to the failure of the client to provide required information," she said.Osterman said the state assistance payments to Widener were halted after she was arrested.Foley said the Department of Health and Human Services knowingly approved payments for recipients who had no living expenses, because they were living in one of the department's own facilities. In one case, he said, the state approved $645 in living expenses to a convicted felon at a time when he was incarcerated.Foley said other people received assistance despite owning assets, including homes and vehicles, which were not disclosed to the department. One person who owned a rental property and vehicles received more than $100,000 in underserved payments, he said. Others received six-figure payments because of assets that were miscounted or not verified, he said.Foley, a Republican candidate for governor, has promised to dismantle the department "brick by brick" if elected.