Inc 500 | 5000 fastest growing companies list adds promotional fullfillment services.Irvine, CA, USA - November 25th, 2013 /MarketersMedia/ -- Promotional Fulfillment Services, Inc. (PROMOFILL), one of California`s fastest-growing companies, was recently added to Inc 500 | 5000 Fastest Growing Companies list. The list showcases the fastest-growing privately-held companies in the nation. INC. Magazine is a premiere print publication for business owners and entrepreneurs that hosts an annual list, conference and awards ceremony celebrating entrepreneurism and was launched in 1982.In 2013, PROMOFILL was named #793 on the list and at #24 in terms of Logistics and Transportation companies. They were also named 59th in the Los Angeles Metro area (they`re based in Orange County). They offer a wide range of promotional fulfillment solutions to businesses and non-profit organizations, ranging from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies. Some of their clients include Crest, Ford Motor Company, HBO, P&G and Sony.According to details on the INC. website, PROMOFILL has grown 574% in the past three years. The company was founded in 2006 in Irvine, California. INC considers them amongst the top 3 in terms of fulfillment companies nationwide. A fulfillment company manages the order process from the receipt of the order to the delivery of the product to the customer. Inventory is stored in a distribution center and orders are received through the fulfillment process and then processed, packaged and shipped.CEO, Dan Barnett stated that "We`re really excited to be included in Inc.`s 500 | 5000 List and look forward to providing the most innovative and reliable fulfillment services our clients deserve."PROMOFILL offers automated order flow systems for companies where a Quality Control Team inspects each order. They also offer marketing support services where campaigns of event marketing, sample distribution, sweepstakes or displays are supported (up to 100,000 pieces). In terms of warehousing, their west coast distribution center offers dry, clean and secure storage for inventory for small or large businesses. The center is 80,000 square feet and is located in southern California, just 25 minutes from local ports.PROMOFILL also can provide e-commerce fulfillment through shopping carts, payment processing, web design, marketing, shipping, account and the end result, product fulfillment. They offer end-to-end e-commerce systems that run successfully and are easy to use. For fulfillment services as well as logistics solutions, visit promofill.com.About The Company: Promotional Fulfillment Services, Inc. (PROMOFILL) is a leader in third-party logistics providers. They specialize in warehousing, order and product fulfillment as well as distribution services directly to the customer or to retail or wholesale industries. One of the fastest growing California companies, they are committed to satisfying each and every one of their clientele.Visit http://www.promofill.com for more information.Contact Info Name: Dan Barnett
Organization: Promotional Fulfillment Services, Inc.
Phone: (800) 815-1505
Address: 67 Fairbanks Avenue, Irvine, CA 92618###This announcement is sourced from MarketersMedia [Link].This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients.The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: MarketersMedia via GlobeNewswireHUG#1745708