CRESWICK, AUSTRALIA--(Marketwired - Jun 11, 2013) -
Sparx Systems, a leading vendor of modeling tools based on UML and related open standards, today announced the launch of its new sister company, Sparx Systems India. With this new addition, Sparx Systems is well positioned to serve the growing Indian IT services market, providing regional support and a distribution base for the company's flagship product, Enterprise Architect.Sparx Systems India joins sister companies already established in Central Europe, South America, New Zealand, China and Japan. "This is an exciting development. We are looking forward to representing the Sparx Systems brand," said Sparx Systems India CEO Nizam Mohamed. "As the market for IT services in India has grown, there has been an increasing requirement for shorter response cycles, project governance and adaptability. As Sparx Systems Enterprise Architect is very favorably positioned to meet this need, we are especially pleased to be making this announcement today."Sparx Systems Chief Operations Officer, Tom O'Reilly, commented that "Enterprise Architect has achieved great success worldwide with a loyal user base of over 300,000 users. With the establishment of Sparx Systems India, rapidly growing Indian markets such as resources, manufacturing, retail, telecommunications and health care now have local support to drive their future business." He added, "Given the popularity of Sparx Systems Enterprise Architect in the region, this partnership is well timed to support the growing need for business analysis, requirements management, standards development, enterprise architecture and software development."At the upcoming Business Analysis Convention in Bangalore, attendees will have their first opportunity to meet with staff from Sparx Systems India. Mr Nizam Mohamed will be presenting at the event. Supported by the International Institute of Business Analysis (IIBA), Business Analysis Convention is being held on the 25-26th of July and brings together leaders of the business analysis community. More details can be sought from www.sparxsystems.in/ba-convention.For more information about Sparx Systems India visit: www.sparxsystems.in.About Sparx Systems Sparx Systems specializes in high performance and scalable visual modeling tools for the planning, design and construction of software intensive systems.With customers in industries ranging from aerospace and automotive engineering to finance, defense, government, entertainment and telecommunications, Sparx Systems has won five consecutive SD Times awards and is the leading vendor of innovative solutions based on the Unified Modeling Language (UML) and its related specifications. A Contributing Member of the Object Management Group (OMG), Sparx Systems is committed to realizing the potential of model-driven development based on open standards.The company's flagship product, Enterprise Architect, has received numerous accolades since its commercial release in August 2000, including two Jolt and Visual Studio Magazine Reader's Choice Merit awards. Now at version 10, Enterprise Architect is the design tool of choice for over 300,000 registered users world-wide.