LONDON--(Marketwired - Jun 11, 2013) - Urban Mapping, the leading provider of embedded geographic technology, today announced a significant performance improvement to mapping capabilities available through Tableau Software's (
NYSE :
DATA ) products. Effective immediately, all Tableau customers accessing map-related features will gain up to 1,000% faster access to Mapfluence, Urban Mapping's hosted web mapping platform.Urban Mapping's new content delivery network (CDN) spans sixteen countries in four continents, translating to performance improvements of 2 to 10 times, depending on location. Tableau and Urban Mapping are making this announcement at the Tableau European Customer Conference to underscore the importance of international customers in Tableau's growth."By pushing maps closer to customers, we speed the delivery of content," stated Ian White, president and founder of Urban Mapping. "Proximity is everything. This means lower latency and higher sustained data transfer rates, which are needed to deliver large objects to end users at scale."As Tableau's official mapping partner, Urban Mapping allows Tableau customers to access base maps, create custom geographic overlays and other visualizations, including demographics and high-resolution imagery, and utilize additional data from the Mapfluence on-demand data catalog, all within Tableau products."As a global software company committed to pushing the envelope with visualization technologies, mapping is a must have," commented James Eiloart, vice president of Europe, Middle East and Asia at Tableau. "With the CDN, Urban Mapping is not only helping deliver value-added capabilities to our customers, they have also taken the extra step to develop an innovative delivery platform to provide those capabilities as fast as possible."Because Mapfluence maintains native access to Tableau, it offers higher performance, reliability and service offerings over legacy mapping technologies. Interested customers can access a free evaluation of enhanced mapping capabilities in Tableau by registering at www.urbanmapping.com/tableau. These capabilities include:Overlay high resolution satellite and aerial imagery Access 10,000 variables to overlay from the Mapfluence on-demand data catalog Host proprietary customer data in Mapfluence for easy visualization in Tableau Create additional map styles including heat maps, raster data and great arcs Address-level geocoding Custom-styled base maps Sales territory definition and management Custom data sourcing Advanced spatial queries and geographic operationsAbout Urban Mapping Urban Mapping, Inc. (UMI) provides geospatial web and data services to simplify the development and deployment of online mapping and data visualization applications. UMI's Mapfluence service provides embedded geographic technology, offering solid technical infrastructure for mapping, custom cartography and the industry's most comprehensive on-demand data catalog. Since 2006, leading interactive publishers like Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft, and leading enterprises like CoStar Group, Tableau Software and CoreLogic have utilized Urban Mapping's geospatial data and technology. For more information about enhanced mapping solutions for Tableau, please visit www.urbanmapping.com/tableau.About Tableau SoftwareTableau Software helps people see and understand data. Tableau helps anyone quickly analyze, visualize and share information. More than 12,000 customer accounts get rapid results with Tableau in the office and on-the-go. And tens of thousands of people use Tableau Public to share data in their blogs and websites. See how Tableau can help you by downloading the free trial at www.tableausoftware.com/trial.Tableau and Tableau Software are trademarks of Tableau Software, Inc. All other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.