PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 11, 2013) -   TIBCO Software Inc. (
NASDAQ :
TIBX ) today announced the company is kicking off the Transform 2013 user conference in Europe, with events in Paris on Tuesday, 11 June and London on Thursday, 13 June.Participants and guests will see the latest innovations for integrating and analyzing Big Data and learn how to utilize the TIBCO platform to better understand and better exploit in-the-moment and future opportunities. They will hear how TIBCO customers and partners from various industries are leveraging these innovations to gain the two-second advantage®. TIBCO executives Matt Quinn, CTO, Matt Langdon, SVP of Strategic Operations and CMO, and Murray Rode, COO and interim CFO, will be speaking at both events.Attendees will also learn through demonstrations and workshops how the TIBCO platform can solve big-data challenges such as maximizing supply chain efficiency, spotting fraudulent transactions, improving upsell opportunities, and more. "The journey from data to decision requires the ability to understand, anticipate, and act in the moment that matters -- not weeks or months later when the opportunity has vanished," said Matt Langdon, TIBCO SVP of Strategic Operations and CMO. "Transform 2013 will show attendees how TIBCO can turn Big Data into big opportunity by integrating and analyzing both data in motion and data at rest for their own two-second advantage."When/What: Transform 2013 -- Paris: Tuesday, 11 June, 8:30 - 15:45 CET; London: Thursday, 13 June, 9:00 - 16:45 BST.Information: To see the full agenda online or register for the complimentary event, please visit: https://formvine.tibco.com/fv/r/1954449864/8071 for Paris and https://formvine.tibco.com/fv/r/3968062925/9712 for London.About TIBCO TIBCO Software Inc. (
NASDAQ :
TIBX ) is a provider of infrastructure software for companies to use on-premise or as part of cloud computing environments. Whether it's efficient claims or trade processing, cross-selling products based on real-time customer behavior, or averting a crisis before it happens, TIBCO provides companies the two-second advantage® -- the ability to capture the right information, at the right time, and act on it preemptively for a competitive advantage. More than 4,000 customers worldwide rely on TIBCO to manage information, decisions, processes, and applications in real time. Learn more at www.tibco.com.TIBCO, two-second advantage, and TIBCO Software are trademarks or registered trademarks of TIBCO Software Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other product and company names and marks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners and are mentioned for identification purposes only. For more information, contact www.tibco.com.