PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 11, 2013) - TIBCO Software Inc. (
NASDAQ :
TIBX ) today announced TIBCO® Iris -- a new software product designed to deliver enhanced application trouble-shooting and forensic capabilities for application developers, support engineers, security analysts and QA testers. As the newest big data product release from the TIBCO LogLogic® product group, this standalone solution easily ingests and intelligently processes and visualizes results for application and machine log data to enable self-service troubleshooting and forensics for today's enterprise applications.Building on TIBCO's leadership in scalable machine data solutions, TIBCO Iris completes end-to-end troubleshooting and forensics analytics in minutes. TIBCO Iris will prove an essential tool for teams of application developers by providing new dynamic search capabilities, support for popular data sources, drag-and-drop file input, a powerful new query language, and the ability to visualize results in real time without the delay associated with indexing or the need to write a single line of code."There are threats and opportunities hidden in customers' big data," said Rock Gnatovich, senior vice president, TIBCO. "With TIBCO Iris, we are complementing our ability to collect and manage massive amounts of log data with a self-service solution that will become indispensable to application developers and security experts who are charged with keeping systems running and companies safe."TIBCO will preview the product on June 11th in Paris and on June 13th in London, at its Transform events. More information and a detailed agenda are available at: http://transform.tibco.com. In addition, TIBCO will be participating at the Gartner Security and Risk Management Summit in booth #077 from June 10th-13th in National Harbor, Maryland. More information on the summit can be found at: http://www.gartner.com/technology/summits/na/security/. Some of the new capabilities offered in TIBCO Iris v1.0 include:High-speed search without indexing Real-time data visualization Forensics and application troubleshooting Easy-to-use "click, not code" approach to workflow and integration Collection from all log file sources, including Syslog, File, TIBCO Enterprise Message Service™ & TIBCO LogLogic® Log Management Intelligence
To learn more about TIBCO Iris and other TIBCO LogLogic products visit http://www.tibco.com/Iris or follow TIBCO LogLogic on Twitter at www.twitter.com/loglogic. Also, join us on June 25, 2013 for a free live webinar showcasing TIBCO Iris by registering here.About TIBCO TIBCO Software Inc. (
NASDAQ :
TIBX ) is a provider of infrastructure software for companies to use on-premise or as part of cloud computing environments. Whether it's efficient claims or trade processing, cross-selling products based on real-time customer behavior, or averting a crisis before it happens, TIBCO provides companies the two-second advantage® -- the ability to capture the right information, at the right time, and act on it preemptively for a competitive advantage. More than 4,000 customers worldwide rely on TIBCO to manage information, decisions, processes, and applications in real time. Learn more at www.tibco.com.TIBCO, two-second advantage, LogLogic, TIBCO Iris, TIBCO Enterprise Message Service, and TIBCO Software are trademarks or registered trademarks of TIBCO Software Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. All other product and company names and marks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners and are mentioned for identification purposes only.