TROY, MI--(Marketwired - Nov 11, 2013) - GlobalBusinessProfessor.com, the leading global business online education platform, today announced the availability of the two-day "Strategic Negotiations" course by Jeoff Burris, president of Advanced Purchasing Dynamics. The two-day course is targeted to purchasing and sales professionals and will be held on December 10 - 11 at the Marriott Hotel in Troy, Michigan.According to course instructor and designer Jeoff Burris, "Tailored for purchasing and sales professionals who want to achieve better negotiation results, we have designed Strategic Negotiations to rapidly upgrade your negotiation knowledge and skills. Real world experts train purchasing and sales professionals in the hands-on, how-to of maximizing results utilizing Power, Aspiration and Preparation."Because APD focuses solely on providing guidance to buyers and sellers of manufactured goods and services, the skills learned during the two-day seminar deliver the precise knowledge you need with pinpoint accuracy. APD's training materials, examples and real life cases are all based upon the types of negotiations typically encountered in a manufacturing setting. APD trains with workshop methodologies using tools that can be immediately incorporated in day-to-day work. Participants in the Strategic Negotiations seminar will:1. Maximize the impact Preparation, Power and Aspiration have on negotiations, while lowering the other parties'
2. Understand differences between Competitive and Collaborative Negotiations and how to choose the best approach for each situation
3. Gain key insights into where to look for cost reduction opportunities and how to ensure that suppliers are quoting openly and honestly.
4. Utilize specific cases and detailed check sheets designed to reinforce key concepts.
5. Gain effective strategies for getting suppliers to complete detailed cost breakdowns.
6. Be equipped with take-away tools to implement the knowledge gainedAdvance Purchasing Dynamic's training is developed and delivered by purchasing executives, real world experts who can show you how to achieve success in strategic negotiations. This limited enrollment course is delivered in a hands-on workshop format.Successfully completing this course qualifies for Continuing Education Credit. The two-day seminar is priced at $950 per person. Save $100 with Early Registration, before November 19.For more information on the two-day seminar, please visit the following link: http://www.professionalcourses.globalbusinessprofessor.com/fe/58770-strategic-negotiations#!About the Seminar Presenter: Jeoff Burris and Advanced Purchasing Dynamics Advanced Purchasing Dynamics, Inc.'s Principal and Founder Jeoff Burris is a purchasing expert, with over twenty years of experience in the automotive industry. Burris possesses the detailed knowledge necessary to transform an underperforming organization, department or individual into a world-class leader. From his professional beginnings as a production supervisor to the executive boardroom, Burris has carried with him a reputation for developing progressive solutions and achieving proven results. Burris now shares, as an instructor, his insights providing relatable examples and actionable strategies that detail how to achieve personal and organizational success.About GlobalBusinessProfessor.com GlobalBusinessProfessor.com is a global business online education platform. It helps companies grow and succeed in international markets by providing education and training solutions to global challenges. Solutions are presented by expert practitioners from around the world. On-Demand Seminars, Audio Interviews, Courses and eJournals provide valuable online learning opportunities. Additionally, onsite training programs provide effective solutions to companies' global business needs. Whether your company sources internationally, imports, exports, manufactures in several countries, has joint ventures or plans to do business internationally, you will find valuable help here. Troy-based HCI Group, Ltd. owns and operates GlobalAutoIndustry.com and GlobalBusinessProfessor.com.