VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Nov 11, 2013) -
Morning Star Resources Ltd. (the "Concerned Shareholder") announced today that the conflicted directors of Boss have responded to the independent director's (the "Boss Independent Director") allegations by privately attempting to prevent him and the Concerned Shareholder from telling the truth to shareholders. Bringing to light truth about management's actions is the Boss Independent Director's duty as a director and is in the best interests of Boss shareholders and the public.Conflicted directors attempt to silence the truthThe Boss Independent Director has stepped forward and exposed the truth about the conflicted directors' actions. Instead of coming clean, the conflicted directors continue to hide the truth and are attempting to privately silence the Boss Independent Director and the Concerned Shareholder with threatening correspondence. The conflicted directors have no right to prevent the Boss Independent Director from telling the truth to shareholders when it is in their best interest and that of Boss's.The Boss Independent Director has specifically stated that Boss's information circular is false, misleading and contains defamatory statements. Despite this, the conflicted directors went ahead and published the materially misleading information circular and have stood by its false claims. It is inconceivable that the conflicted directors can claim to have been "ambushed" by the truth.Do not rely on the false statements made by the conflicted directors in their information circular.The conflicted directors continue to insult shareholders' intelligence. The conflicted directors have previously tried to marginalize the Concerned Shareholder's allegations as fictions. Now that a member of the current board has come out in support of the Concerned Shareholder's claims, the conflicted directors have turned on the longest serving director of Boss by questioning his loyalty. It is clear what is happening. We are confident that Boss shareholders will see through these tactics.If the conflicted directors are adamant that the Boss Independent Director's allegations are false, the Concerned Shareholder challenges them to release the entire statutory declaration and to provide their own sworn statement specifically refuting the Boss Independent Director's claims under oath.It is not too late. Shareholders should vote their BLUE proxy or VIF immediately, and no later than TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2013. A vote for your BLUE proxy or VIF is a vote to save the $30 million settlement and return funds to shareholders.YOU MAY VOTE TO SUPPORT THE CONCERNED SHAREHOLDER'S NOMINEES EVEN IF YOU HAVE PREVIOUSLY DEPOSITED A PROXY IN SUPPORT OF MANAGEMENT. SUBMITTING A BLUE PROXY WILL AUTOMATICALLY REVOKE ANY PRIOR PROXY OR VOTING INSTRUCTION.For assistance voting your BLUE proxy or VIF, shareholders should contact Valiant Trust Company toll-free at 1-877-699-4880 or 1-866-313-1872, or by email at inquiries@valianttrust.com. Our proxy circular and letter to shareholders has been mailed to shareholders and is also available on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. To keep current with further developments and for information about how to vote your shares, we have set up a website at www.bosspowerconcernedshareholder.com, which we encourage shareholders to visit regularly.