Pulled pork… It’s something many of us enjoy eating, but may not be sure how to make. This budget-friendly meal is actually really simple to prepare, especially when you use your crock pot.Chef Chad Thilborger, author of “Whole Heap of Goodness,” shared his recipe for Pulled Pork with Money Talks News founder Stacy Johnson. Watch them prepare it in this video and read on for the recipe.Watch 'Frugal Family Feast: Pulled Pork'.Fabulous meal for less than 15 bucks! The slow cooking of the pork makes it so tender and juicy, it practically falls apart. When it’s done, you just take a couple of forks and pull the meat apart to get that familiar shredded look.Don’t have a crock pot? Don’t worry! You can still achieve the same result by slowly baking the pork in the oven. Bake at 225 degrees for 6 to 7 hours, basting the meat about every 45 minutes. Check the internal temperature with a meat thermometer if you have one, to make sure the pork is cooked all the way through. It should read 160 degrees when done.Chef Chad loves to serve this with corn bread and whatever veggies you have at home. You can regularly find pork roast on sale at your local grocery, and adding the sides will still keep you under $15 for four servings. If you’ve never made pulled pork at home before, get ready for this to become a staple. Enjoy!Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork – Courtesy of Chef Chad Thilborger 3 pounds boneless pork shoulder or tenderloin 1 tablespoon yellow mustard 2 ounces bourbon 1 onion finely chopped 5 cloves garlic finely chopped 1 tablespoon honey One 14 to 24 ounce bottle of your favorite barbecue sauce (depending on how much you like) Salt and pepper to tasteThrow all ingredients and HALF barbecue sauce into slow cooker; put on HIGH for first hour. Then lower heat to low and cook for next 3 hours. During the last hour tenderloin should fall apart with a fork. Pull apart and put back into slow cooker with remaining barbecue sauce. Mix well and cook 30 minutes or longer. Serve when ready! Enjoy!For oven cooking : Preheat oven to 225 degrees. Place pork in roasting pan, along with spices and barbecue sauce. Cover and cook for 6 to 7 hours. Baste every 45 minutes or so, using a sauce mop or silicone sauce brush. Internal temperature should read 160 degrees when finished. Let the pork rest for about 20 minutes before pulling it apart to preserve the meat’s natural juices.After you try this dish, go to our Facebook page and let us know how you like it!This article was originally published on MoneyTalksNews.com as 'Frugal Family Feast: Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork'.More from Money Talks NewsFrugal Family Feast: EnchiladasWhen Does Food Really Expire?More Good Reasons to Go Generic in the Grocery Store