FRIDAY HARBOR, WA--(Marketwired - Dec 13, 2013) - Strategic News Service (SNS) is proud to announce the launch of a partnership with the new Park City Institute (PCI) for a "Future in Review" Speaker Series at The Eccles Center, Park City, Utah. The series will feature world-class innovative thinkers, doers, and speakers affiliated with Strategic News Service and the SNS annual Future in Review (FiRe) conference, which The Economist calls "the best technology conference in the world." SNS member-subscribers include Elon Musk, Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos, Mark Hurd, Colin Angle, Paul Jacobs, and Michael Dell.The SNS/PCI speaker series will premier on Friday, December 13, in the intimate Black Box Theater at The Eccles Center with a talk by SNS CEO Mark Anderson on "Ideas into Actions: The Joy of Finding Planet-Scale Solutions," setting an optimistic tone that describes SNS' international team effort to achieve positive global outcomes. Mark will be introduced by Sharon Anderson Morris, Director of SNS Programs and FiRe events and Managing Director of SNS FiReFilms."We are delighted to be an alliance partner with the Park City Institute, and to have the opportunity to bring world-class thinkers and achievers from our FiRe community into this new speaker series. We are looking forward to a long and mutually-beneficial relationship, exploring brilliant ideas and getting great things done," said Mark Anderson, SNS CEO and FiRe Chair.Future series speakers include award-winning filmmaker Louie Schwartzberg, acclaimed for capturing breathtaking time-lapse images of nature that celebrate life (January 31); Larry Smarr, founding director of the Calit2 (UCSD) labs, recently recognized for his breakthrough experiments in self-diagnostics and identifying solutions for the future of healthcare (March 7); and world-renowned ocean scientist Roger Payne, best known for his pioneering studies of both ocean health and whale behaviors (April 18).For more information and to purchase tickets, visit http://ecclescenter.org/future-in-review-speaker-series.Strategic News Service was founded by Anderson in 1995 as the first subscriber-based online news service. Since its inception, SNS has proven the most accurate predictive report covering technology and the global economy. Its subscribers include top managers at technology and finance companies across the globe, including Oracle, Microsoft, Dell, HP, Cisco, Intel, Google, British Telecom, SpaceX, Amazon, Telstra, and others.SNS has also been operating the annual Future in Review (FiRe) Conference since 2003. FiRe exposes world experts and participants to new ideas, and conversations about them, producing an accurate portrait of the future; and focuses on creating technology solutions to current local and global problems. FiRe 2014 will take place May 20-23 at the Montage hotel in Laguna Beach, California. For more information and to register, go to www.futureinreview.com.Future in Review™ is a Strategic News Service™ conference. Future in Review and Strategic News Service (SNS) are registered international trademarks. The "SNS Global Report" is the most accurate publicly ranked predictive newsletter in computing and communications.Websites: www.stratnews.com, www.futureinreview.com