EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.
12:33 p.m. EDT update
Question No. 3 focused on the possibility of a breakup of the company. Kass started the question off asking Buffett to elaborate on his earlier comment that suggested when he is gone, Berkshire will move to a more centralized style of management. Then he pointed to Teledyne's  TDY former CEO Henry Singleton's (and close friend to Buffett and Munger) decision to break up that company into three separate business as he increased in age. Singleton's rational for the breakup was partially due to his view that the company was too hard to manage with only one CEO. Given the size and scope and complexity of some of Berkshire's businesses, Kass wanted to know if Buffett would advise a similar transaction take place as Buffett gets older. Buffett responded "Breaking up Teledyne was a poor result, certainly now and in the future." This seemingly indicated he had no interest in advising on a breakup of Berkshire at any time now or in the future. He explained that Berkshire is a business that is easily managed. Any centralization that would happen after he is gone would only be within the smaller companies. Munger spoke of Henry Singleton, saying that "he was 100% rational, and there are very few CEO's that we can say that about."
12:07 p.m. EDT update
Question No. 2 touched on the unmatched ability of Buffett to extract remarkable value in distressed opportunities. Kass pointed out that these types of transactions have veered from his historical focus on the investing in companies with solid fundamental growth opportunities. Buffett's reputation and capital base has put him in a very unique position to backstop large companies at attractive prices. He did this with Goldman Sachs  GS , Bank of America  BAC and General Electric  GE , all of which are poised to be hugely profitable. Kass wanted to know how Buffett's successor could be as successful as he has in receiving these opportunities and being able to execute on them as they arise. Buffett said that his successor would have more capital than he had so will absolutely have the ability to take on any distressed opportunities that arise. "Berkshire will have unusual capital in turbulent times. My successor can say yes very quickly [to distressed deals] that require large sums of capital. That will set you apart very quickly from others." Buffett was very confident that his successor would be willing to deploy that capital when the need for capital arises, but only in sound deals. Buffett explained, "Berkshire is the 800 number to call when people need capital in distressed times." It's more a sign of Berkshire's brand than anything attached to a single individual. Munger and Buffett made it clear that distress opportunities are not their main business, but at the time, it made sense to get involved in give the attractive deals.
11:42 a.m. EDT
Much anticipation has built since Doug Kass was appointed the "credentialed bear" on Berkshire Hathaway BRK.A / BRK.B two months ago by Warren Buffett. This is the first time a bear has been invited to the Woodstock of Capitalism. Today our anticipation is put to rest. Kass, President of Seabreeze Partners, had warned us that he planned to throw Buffett at least one curveball, and we are betting he won't disappoint. He stepped up to the plate and kicked off the bear case with a question about size and growth prospects. Kass asked about Berkshire's recent acquisitions, which have been pricier than acquisitions they have done in the past at much more attractive valuations. Kass said, you were "hunting gazelles before, but now you are hunting elephants." He points out that Burlington Northern and Lubrizol have been made at high historical valuations. Richer prices paid will lead to lower returns on acquisitions than in the past, driving slower growth for the company. Does this mean Berkshire is becoming more like a sleepy index than a stock? Warren immediately responded that "there's no question about it we are seeing slower growth. It's tougher as we get bigger; we always knew that would be the case." On prices paid, he pointed to Geico saying they paid 20x earnings and a fair size above book value for the company. In fact, Berkshire owns eight different businesses that would be on the Fortune 500 list if they didn't own them. Buffett explains, "We have paid up for good business. There are companies we should have bought 30 years ago that looked expensive then but have done very well. We have now realized that paying up for an extraordinary business is not a mistake." They are trying to avoid missing good opportunities like the ones they passed on previously. Charlie Munger added, "Looking at all the companies out there that got really big, the record isn't that good. However, we think we'll do pretty well despite getting big. We'll do better than the giants of the past. We have a better system than most other people." Warren wasn't fully in agreement with the last part of that statement. Warren closed the conversation by saying "You haven't convinced me to sell the stock yet, Doug." 10 Greenest Cars of 201310 Biggest Summer Blockbusters Without Superheroes10 Major League Towns Where Baseball Doesn't Cost a Bundle