NEW YORK (TheStreet) -- Jim Cramer fills his blog on RealMoney every day with his up-to-the-minute reactions to what's happening in the market and his legendary ahead-of-the-crowd ideas. This week he blogged on:
Click here for information on RealMoney, where you can see all the blogs, including Jim Cramer's -- and reader comments -- in real time.
My Heinz Catch-Up Lesson
Posted at 7:18 p.m. EDT on Friday, May 3
Do we need to "play" this rotation? Or can we be more like Warren Buffett and be long-term oriented and just own Heinz
right through it?
I picked Heinz for a reason. I picked it because at the beginning of 1987 we had a very similar spurt in industrial activity and employment, not unlike we had this week.
I had just started my hedge fund, and I told people I was going to do it differently from other hedge funds. I was going to think long term. I had liked the stock of Heinz for ages because it was a great domestic-going-international play. People forget that at one point companies like Heinz were largely domestic and they had such fabulous brands that they decided they could take the world by storm. Heinz had one of those brands, and the company was beginning to deliver consistent, smooth growth as it picked up share in country after country after country.
I want to own it through thin and, yes, thick. I gave it as an example of the kind of company that I thought I could operate.
Also see: Warren Buffett's Elephant Gun Catches Up to Heinz >>
Within the first two months of the fund I had lost 9%, and the market was only down about half of that. I had gotten hit by a massive rotation out of the Heinz and into companies like Phelps Dodge (now Freeport- McMoRan ) and Reynolds Metals, Alcan and the Bethlehem Steel. All storied names, names that I thought had little value because they had nothing proprietary and blew with the cyclical winds.
When I told the same people who had put money with me that I was down because of my long-term strategy of emphasizing best-of-breed stocks, the vast majority of people who had agreed with that philosophy told me they were going to exercise their right to pull their money out at year-end if I were still down like that. Others wanted me to open the fund and send the money back at that very moment.
My Heinz strategy didn't work. I had to scramble like hell and play the game with the chemicals and the papers. I quickly recouped the losses and ended up finishing in the black for the year and the rest was history -- 14 real good years.
I never forgot the Heinz gambit, though.
I think this could be a very big rotation that's about to happen. The employment number is the single most important number we get. It called the tune in the downturn, and it called the tune in the upturn. Now it appears that we may have some sustained employment growth, which means that interest rates could head higher and the bigger-yielding stocks like Heinz aren't going to be able to keep up with the modern day Phelps Dodges and Bethlehem Steels, which is this case might be Freeport or Timken , even as the former is involved in a difficult merger and the latter might have some angry and potentially selling shareholders if the company doesn't resolve to split itself up at next week's shareholder meeting.
Also see: Cramer's Top Stock Picks: BRK.B FB TSRX >>
The pressure to perform will not lead to a wholesale selloff in the dividend-paying slow growers if the Fed stands pat, but new money's going into the cyclicals for certain and unless you are Warren Buffett, I think you are going to have a real hard time if you are managing anyone else's money but your own. The pressure to perform isn't changed. The anger of the investors will not have changed. The need to dump the Heinz and buy Cummins
and National Oilwell Varco
hasn't changed.
So remember, while you are watching Doug Kass duke it out with Warren Buffett, don't just ask "what would Warren do?" Ask "what would your limited partners or investors do?"
Because unless you have Warren's long-term track record, guess what? You aren't buying Heinz. You are selling it.
At the time of publication, Action Alerts PLUS, which Cramer co-manages as a charitable trust, was long TKR.
Also see: Why You Shouldn't Retire at Age 66 >>
Study the Numbers
Posted at 3:42 p.m. EDT on Friday, May 3
Do you go for the so-called overvalued consumer packaged goods and drug stocks that are selling off, or do you grab some cyclicals?
I think you have to recognize that some of these cyclical stocks are so low and beaten-up that it means nothing that they are up a dollar and change today. Do you really think after losing 5%, 6% or 7% overnight that stocks such as Chicago Bridge & Iron
and Timken
are overvalued? Do you really fear DuPont
being up 53 cents or General Electric
up 29 cents? I don't think you should.
But far more interesting to me are the regional banks that have done nothing as they wait for an uptick in lending. Job growth means there's lending going on and that's extraordinary for the likes of names such as BB&T , First Horizon , SunTrust Banks
or KeyCorp .
The autos haven't run too much if Europe's indeed turning. And the home plays that haven't run as much of late, PulteGroup
and Toll Brothers , seem pretty darned compelling.
The key, I think is to recognize that you don't need to buy the stocks of underperforming companies. Plenty of companies such as DuPont "did" the number and haven't been fully rewarded. Consider, for example, Weyerhaeuser . Upside surprises in lumber and housing. But the company would not let estimates get away from them. But, in the end, sometimes you can't hide how well you are really doing. This is why WY, ahead of next Friday's analyst meeting, could be a terrific place to be.
But let me give you one of my absolute favorite trades right now: Royal Bank of Scotland . It reported a quarter that was pretty darned good, with a very good return on equity and an excellent wealth and international banking business. The worry here is that the government's now going to start selling aggressively as it is 81% owned by the U.K. taxpayers.
To me, that sounds like the next American International Group . You see that one? You want to get into that name in when the government starts unloading, which is unnaturally depressing the prices.
Don't take your key from "the action." Go study the numbers. It was much better than many expected and I think it will be the under owned worldwide financial that will be adored when the government's out of the picture.
At the time of publication, Action Alerts PLUS, which Cramer co-manages as a charitable trust, was long CBI, GE, WY.
what Heinz stock tells us about playing the cyclical rotation; andthe cyclical trades that have gone unnoticed.EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.10 Greenest Cars of 201310 Biggest Summer Blockbusters Without Superheroes10 Major League Towns Where Baseball Doesn't Cost a Bundle