CRANSTON, RI--(Marketwired - July 27, 2013) -  Rhode Island based Alex and Ani, LLC, the world's fastest growing lifestyle brand, has partnered with the New England Patriots, becoming the official title sponsor of the Patriots Cheerleaders. The Kraft family and Alex and Ani CEO Giovanni Feroce announced the three-year partnership at a media event held today.The partnership will be communicated via fixed in-stadium signage, team related social media, online media, branding and charitable efforts throughout Gillette Stadium. Through the partnership, Alex and Ani will be integrated into the fabric of both teams' marketing efforts. In addition, an Alex and Ani retail store will open later this year at Patriot Place in Foxborough.Following Alex and Ani's success with branding professional sports teams' cheerleader and dancer uniforms, the Patriots Cheerleaders will be sporting the Alex and Ani logo on all their warmup suits and select uniforms. In addition, Designer Carolyn Rafaelian, Alex and Ani founder and creative director, has provided each cheerleader with an exclusive bangle set representing the team's colors, which the cheerleaders will wear for all community appearances and on field each game day."Working with the New England Patriots and the Kraft family is a natural fit for our company as we continue to grow into an elite American brand," stated Feroce."It is always exciting for us to form new partnerships with New England-based companies," said Patriots President Jonathan Kraft. "Alex and Ani's connection and commitment to the state of Rhode Island and the New England region make them a natural partner."About Alex and AniAlex and Ani, LLC offers eco-friendly, positive energy products created by Designer Carolyn Rafaelian, Founder and Creative Director. Alex and Ani is synonymous with Made in America. Its World Headquarters are located in the Greater Providence, Rhode Island area, where its products are designed, manufactured, and assembled using recycled local materials. Carolyn believes that every individual has a positive message to share with the world and that, by incorporating powerful symbolism and design into each positive energy piece, Alex and Ani provides a vehicle for wearers to express their individuality. An Inc. 500 Company, Alex and Ani has retail stores in addition to retail partners both domestically and internationally. Please visit www.alexandani.com for more information.Contact informationThe following files are available for download: A AEnergyLogo flower