COLORADO SPRINGS, CO--(Marketwired - Jul 26, 2013) - Gold Resource Corporation (
NYSE MKT :
GORO ) (the "Company") is saddened to announce an employee was fatally injured today in a rock fall accident at the La Arista underground mine. Underground operations have been temporarily suspended until an investigation, conducted by Gold Resource Corporation's management and the Mexican Ministry of Labor and Social Security is completed over the next several days."It is with great sadness that we report the death of a colleague at our Mexican operations," stated Gold Resource Corporation's President, Mr. Jason Reid. "Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family and friends and to everyone touched by this incident. Safety procedures are being reviewed as employee health and safety is priority one for the Company."About GRC: Gold Resource Corporation is a mining company focused on production and pursuing development of gold and silver projects that feature low operating costs and produce high returns on capital. The Company has 100% interest in six potential high-grade gold and silver properties in Mexico's southern state of Oaxaca. The Company has 53,279,369 shares outstanding, no warrants and no debt. Gold Resource Corporation offers shareholders the option to convert their cash dividends into physical gold and silver and take delivery. For more information, please visit GRC's website, located at www.Goldresourcecorp.com and read the Company's 10-K for an understanding of the risk factors involved.Cautionary Statements:This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The statements contained in this press release that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. When used in this press release, the words "plan", "target", "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "intend" and "expect" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the statements regarding Gold Resource Corporation's strategy, future plans for production, future expenses and costs, future liquidity and capital resources, and estimates of mineralized material. All forward-looking statements in this press release are based upon information available to Gold Resource Corporation on the date of this press release, and the company assumes no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Forward looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this press release. In particular, there can be no assurance that production will continue at any specific rate. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the Company's 10-K filed with the SEC.