TheLadders , an online job-matching service, recently released its results from a survey of its nearly 5 million members. The survey reveals some attitudes and concerns facing job seekers in December, which is typically a tough month to land interviews.Amanda Augustine, job search expert for TheLadders, drew upon the survey results to provide five tips for job seekers looking to land a position this month. Among her suggestions are tips for resume checks, enhancing your online personal brand, and using social media to job seekers’ benefit. Check out her tips below:1. Mobilize Your Professional Resume. You are 40 percent more likely to land the job you want with a professionally written resume. While 29 percent of respondents have received feedback on their resumes from a professional writer within the last six months, 35 percent have never received professional feedback. Consider hiring a professional who can turn your laundry list of experiences into a narrative that supports your goals and outsmarts the technology gatekeepers.2. Overhaul Your Brand On Social Media and the Web. More than 35 percent of respondents Google themselves only on an annual basis, and 16 percent have never Googled themselves. To monitor your online brand, Google your name regularly. Remove inactive profiles or update them to reflect your current personal brand and resume. Increase the security settings on sites reserved for personal use so recruiters cannot find them.3. Get Back to Basics with Social Media. It’s comforting that more than 80 percent of job seekers feel “comfortable” or “somewhat comfortable” using social media in their job search. You don’t need to be an expert on every social media channel, but you must have a basic understanding of the big four: Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Pinterest. Use these social media sites to strengthen your personal brand online, research target employers or industries, and uncover job opportunities.4. Look the Part. While 65 percent of respondents assert that their online profile photos send the right message to potential employers, 12 percent admit that they do not, and 23 percent confess to not even having an online profile. Invest in your image both online and offline with a stylish yet budget-conscious haircut, updated clothes, and a professional headshot for your online profiles. Remember, presentation is a key aspect of your personal brand, both online and off.5. Get a Smarter Phone. Owning a smartphone can have a positive impact on the job search, according to 75 percent of respondents. Use a smartphone and the latest apps to actively search for jobs, even while on-the-go. Store a copy of your resume on your mobile device or tablet so that you can respond to recruiter requests immediately and keep up to date with social media. Significantly, the signaling effect to employers is that you are comfortable with new technology.Use Augustine’s tips when conducting your job search this month, and you’ll be well on your way to career success. Good luck!More From Business Insider 3 Freelancing Mistakes That Prevent Growth In Your Career9 Ways To Have A Better Professional FutureHow You Could Get Stuck With A Job That Doesn't Match The Description