Advance Auto Parts Inc. (AAP) announced that it has completed the acquisition of Armonk, New York-based supplier of automotive aftermarket parts B.W.P. Distributors, Inc. (“BWP”) in an all-cash transaction. The acquisition is a part of the company’s expansion plan in the strategic growth area of Northeast.
BWP is a privately held company founded in 1962. It supplies, markets and distributes automotive aftermarket parts and products to commercial customers spread across 216 locations in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont.
Due to the closing of the transaction, Advance Auto will operate 124 BWP stores and transfer the rights to an affiliate of General Parts International, Inc. – a privately held auto parts supplying company – to distribute its products to 92 independently owned locations. In addition, the Roanoke, Virginia-based automotive aftermarket parts retailer will continue to operate two BWP distribution centers in Sutton, Massachusetts and Delran, New Jersey.
Advance Auto posted a 14.2% fall in earnings per share to $1.21 in the third quarter of the year from $1.41 in the same quarter a year-ago due to weak sales in the cold weather markets,. However, the EPS tallied the Zacks Consensus Estimate during the quarter. Net income dipped 15.2% to $89.5 million from $105.6 million a year ago.
Revenues in the quarter slid $7.5 million or 0.5% to $1.5 billion, reflecting a 1.8% decrease in comparable store versus a comparable store sales increase of 2.2% during the third quarter of 2011, offset partially by the positive impact of net addition of 82 stores during the past 12 months.
Advance Auto Parts lowered its earnings outlook for 2012 due to the short-term softness in sales. The company now expects to earn between $5.05 and $5.15 per share for the year, down from the prior guidance of $5.25 to $5.35.
As of October 6, 2012, the company’s total store count stood at 3,727, including 210 Autopart International stores. It competes with AutoZone Inc. (AZO), O’Reilly Automotive Inc. (ORLY) and Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack (PBY) and currently retains a Zacks #3 Rank on its stock, which translates to a short-term (1 to 3 months) rating of Hold.  Read the Full Research Report on ORLYRead the Full Research Report on AAP Read the Full Research Report on AZO Read the Full Research Report on PBY Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on ORLY,AAP,AZO,PBY