For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 2, 2013 – Zacks Equity Research highlights Alliant Techsystems (ATK) as the Bull of the Day and Iron Mountain (IRM) as the Bear of the Day. In addition, Zacks Equity Research provides analysis on Gap Inc. (GPS), American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) and The TJX Companies Inc. (TJX).Full analysis of all these stocks is available at http://at.zacks.com/?id=2678.Here is a synopsis of all five stocks:Bull of the Day: Alliant Techsystems (ATK) reported favorable top- and bottom-line results in the second quarter of fiscal 2013 with both lines beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate. The solid performance stemmed from higher booking orders and high-profile defense and aerospace contract wins.We anticipate Alliant to capitalize significantly on defense and aerospace deals gained during the quarter. Furthermore, the company's dividend hike of 30% would add value to its investors and win their confidence over the long term. We believe Alliant's recently incorporated business segment realignment strategy will enable the company to improve its operational efficiency while benefiting margins.However, the imminent threat of defense budget cuts could constrict growth opportunities of the company. We reaffirm our Outperform recommendation on the stock.Bear of the Day:Iron Mountain (IRM) reported a dismal third quarter negatively impacted by lower-than-expected organic growth in the core services coupled with contraction in activity-based service revenue and decline in recycled paper prices. The company provided a tepid outlook.Although the company's decision to convert into an REIT would definitely increase shareholders value and reduce the tax burden, we continue to believe that the results will be negatively affected by sluggish internal growth, volatile foreign exchange rates and a decline in recycled paper prices.We believe that the company does not have enough to drive significant growth over the long term. Thus, we downgrade the stock from Neutral to Underperform and set a price target of $28.00.Latest Posts on the Zacks Analyst Blog:Gap Back on Growth TrajectoryGap Inc. (GPS) witnessed considerable recovery in its comparable sales and total sales performance, driven by its relentless endeavors to keep itself on the growth trajectory. The company’s efforts have paid off well in an economy, which is looking for ways to withstand the financial turmoil that seems to have no end.During the period from February to November this year, the company registered improvements in comparable sales in each month, except April. In the same period, comps growth touched a low of negative 2% and a high of positive 10%, thereby recording average growth of approximately 4.4%. In the first ten months of fiscal 2012, comps increased 4% in February, 8% in March, 2% in May, 10% in July, 9% in August, 6% in September, 4% in October and 3% in November, while it remained flat in June and declined 2% in April.Monthly sales data for Gap also showed a decent performance. Between February and November 2012, the company registered a minimum year-over-year flat sales growth and a maximum growth of 12%, reflecting an average growth of approximately 6% for the period. The company recorded sales growth of 6% in February, 10% in March, flat in April, 4% in May, 2.2% in June, 12% in July, 9.1% in August, 7.4% in September, 8% in October and 3.4% in November.Fiscal 2011 Sales: A RecapIn fiscal 2011, Gap reported a decline in comparable sales every month, except April and June. Lackluster sales in the North American region have continuously dragged down Gap’s comparable store sales throughout fiscal 2011. During the fiscal, the company reported a decline of 4% in comparable sales compared with an increase of 2% during the same period in fiscal 2010. Accordingly, Gap’s net sales inched down 1% to $14.55 billion from the prior-year sales of $14.66 billion.Initiatives Taken to Rebound Top LineIn an effort to improve customer experience and enhance productivity per square footage, the company plans to strategically close and consolidate square footage at Gap and Old Navy brands. Gap intends to deliberately reduce its Gap North America store counts to 950 by the end of fiscal 2013, including 700 specialty stores and approximately 250 outlets.Story continuesContrary to this, the company is planning aggressively to expand its international and franchise business. Moreover, it intends to increase Gap store count in China to approximately 45 during current fiscal.In a drive to boost its international operations, Gap also consolidated its foreign business under one division in London. Lackluster sales in North America compelled the company to explore the overseas market. In order to counter the domestic market saturation, Gap is aiming to generate 30% of total sales from overseas operations and online business by fiscal 2013. To achieve this, Gap has opened stores in China, Italy and Australia, and has launched the e-commerce business in more than 90 markets. These moves are expected to further strengthen its top and bottom lines, moving forward.Results So FarDespite exhibiting consistently weak performances in all four quarters of fiscal 2011, the company reported a strong result for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 with net sales increasing 5.8%. The robust performance was primarily driven by a 4% growth in comparable store sales. As a result of the increased top line, the company’s earnings climbed 17.5% year over year to 40 cents per share.During the second quarter of fiscal 2012, Gap’s net sales grew 5.6% year over year primarily driven by 4% increase in comparable store sales. Driven by increased sales, along with improved margins and lower share counts, the company’s earnings per share jumped 40% year over year to 49 cents from 35 cents in the prior-year quarter.The company’s net sales for third-quarter increased 8.0% year over year primarily due to a growth of 6% in comparable store sales. Quarterly earnings came at 63 cents per share, up 66% from comparable quarter last year. Strong earnings performance was mainly driven by an increase in sales along with improved margins and a lower share count.Bolstered by better-than-expected quarterly performance so far during fiscal 2012, the company raised its earnings guidance for the current fiscal to $2.20–$2.25 per share from $1.95–$2.00 projected earlier. Moreover, Gap is now anticipating a 12.0% rise in operating margin during fiscal 2012, up from the previous guidance of 11.0%.Our RecommendationWe believe that the company’s long-term strategic moves along with disciplined cost management measures will not only provide financial flexibility, but also will help the company drive value proposition. Moreover, Gap’s globally recognized brands complement each other, enabling it to leverage its position in the sector.Gap, which competes with American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) and The TJX Companies Inc. (TJX), currently holds a Zacks #2 Rank, which translates into a short-term Buy rating. Moreover, we are maintaining our long-term ‘Outperform’ recommendation on the stock.Get the full analysis of all these stocks by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2649.About the Bull and Bear of the DayEvery day, the analysts at Zacks Equity Research select two stocks that are likely to outperform (Bull) or underperform (Bear) the markets over the next 3-6 months.About the Analyst BlogUpdated throughout every trading day, the Analyst Blog provides analysis from Zacks Equity Research about the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous analyst coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=7158.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks InvestmentResearch is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=4582.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comRead the analyst report on ATK Read the analyst report on IRM Read the analyst report on GPS Read the analyst report on AEO Read the analyst report on TJX Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on ATK,IRM,GPS,AEO,TJX