NEW PROVIDENCE, NJ--(Marketwired - Jun 13, 2013) - AXION International Holdings, Inc. (
OTCQB :
AXIH ), a leader in recycled plastic and plastic composite technologies used to produce ECOTRAX® railties and STRUXURE® building products, today announced the United States Patent and Trademark Office has issued No. 8,455,588. The patent is issued to Rutgers University and licensed to AXION exclusively in the United States and various international territories.Titled, "Use of Recycled Plastics for Structural Building Forms," the patent addresses bridges constructed from modular thermoplastic structural members such as I-beams and tongue & groove boards. These interlocking assemblies are made from AXION's proprietary and patented material formulations using 100% recycled materials. Advancements in the methods of interlocking composite building materials covered in this patent further improves the load bearing specifications of AXION's STRUXURE® and ECOTRAX® products. "AXION has had the good fortune to work with excellent engineers and contractors in our bridge building efforts. As we observed installation of our STRUXURE® products, including our prefabricated assemblies, into bridges we've identified new ways in which these forms have interlocking capabilities. These capabilities allow STRUXURE® to better distribute loads and to take advantage of the unique strengths of our patented material to build bigger and better bridges," stated AXION President and CEO Steve Silverman.STRUXURE® has been used to build bridges on U.S. public roads, railroad bridges, and tank bridges on U.S. military bases.Continued advancements in AXION's technologies enable communities and engineers to build bridges that are both economically and environmentally advantageous. The following is an excerpt from the patent:"There presently are over 500,000 wooden vehicular bridges in the United States assembled from chemically treated lumber. An estimated forty percent of them are in need of repair or replacement."There are several types of chemically treated lumber such as creosoted lumber and pressure treated lumber. These materials are relatively inexpensive to make and use, and they are just as versatile as any other form of wood. They also have enhanced resistance to microbial and fungal degradation and to water."However, the increasing popularity of chemically treated lumber has some negative repercussions that are just now being realized. Chemically treating lumber takes a perfectly useable, recyclable, renewable resource and renders it toxic. For example 'pressure treated' or 'CCA' lumber is treated with very poisonous chromated copper arsenic and cannot be burned. While CCA lumber can be buried, the leaching of toxic chemicals makes such disposal strategies undesirable. The disposal of creosoted lumber requires the use of special incinerators. These materials are becoming far more difficult and expensive to dispose of than to use. However, because of the long useful life of these materials, the economic and environmental impact of chemically treated lumber is just beginning to be felt."About STRUXURE™ BridgesSTRUXURE™ Bridges are engineered from AXION's patented, 100%-recycled plastic formulation. Because the recycled structural composite material is inert, STRUXURE™ Bridges will not rot or absorb moisture, and they are impervious to insect infestation, making them ideal in harsh environments. Because of their durability and low maintenance, they are an excellent cost-effective, long-term solution in bridge applications. In boardwalks, short-span vehicular bridges, and multi-span superstructures, STRUXURE™ is specified for its performance, longevity, and sustainable design. From Scotland to Fort Bragg, North Carolina, STRUXURE™ Bridges are providing long-term, sustainable solutions around the world. For more information about STRUXURE™ Bridges, visit www.axionintl.com/products-composite-bridges.html.About AXION International Holdings, Inc.AXION (
OTCQB :
AXIH ) is a green technology company, transforming waste plastics into structural building materials. Using 100%-recycled consumer and industrial plastics, AXION develops, markets and sells its recycled structural composite products through its ECOTRAX™ composite railtie and STRUXURE™ building material lines. From the railroading industry to the military to global engineering firms, AXION delivers tested, proven and superior green solutions to infrastructure needs around the world. www.AXIH.comStory continuesForward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" for purposes of the Securities and Exchange Commission's "safe harbor" provisions under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause AXION's actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated, including the availability of materials at favorable pricing, sufficient manufacturing capability and the risk factors identified in AXION's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.