MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 13, 2013) - Instart Logic today announced general availability of the Instart Logic Web Application Streaming Network. An industry-first solution designed specifically to enhance user experiences on wireless networks, Instart Logic's patent-pending technology streams web applications and web pages to users instead of downloading them. By intelligently streaming applications as fragments in order of priority based on how users interact with the application, Instart Logic delivers even the most complex and graphics-rich web applications radically faster than legacy delivery networks. Web publishers using Instart Logic dramatically cut the time it takes for users to interact with their application, boosting customer engagement and loyalty, improving SEO, and driving additional revenues."Just as RealNetworks and Adobe changed the game with intelligent video streaming and Microsoft and Citrix made streaming Windows applications possible, Instart Logic is disrupting web performance with our unique web application streaming technology," said Manav Mital, CEO of Instart Logic. "Our web format aware architecture leverages transparent client-side intelligence and a deep understanding of how a web application loads and executes to efficiently stream these applications for local execution in an end users' browser. This is particularly important for web applications delivered over mobile networks that suffer from bandwidth congestion. Ultimately, our Web Application Streaming Network changes the game for web publishers. It empowers them to not just speed up their existing sites but to bring to life a new generation of web applications to boost customer acquisition and revenue."Disrupting Web Application DeliveryCurrent web delivery and optimization approaches, such as Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), require the download of large amounts of data before a user can experience an application or view a web page. To speed up the delivery, legacy technologies resort to shrinking the amount of data thereby compromising the quality of the user experience. With Instart Logic's intelligent streaming, users can interact with an application -- shopping on a web site or playing a game -- almost immediately after only a partial download. Web publishers don't have to comprise on the quality of the user experience. Richer and more engaging web content helps build brand loyalty and increases revenue.Instart Logic provides this technology to web publishers through a highly scalable cloud-based service, providing enterprise-grade reliability, uptime and unmatched performance. The Instart Logic Web Application Streaming Network™ is a globally distributed service with 30 different locations covering all major Internet peering points and boasting 99.9999% uptime since the service went live in the summer of 2012. Deploying Instart Logic requires no code changes, and no additional software to install. Operations teams only need to redirect their DNS settings to send traffic to the Instart Logic network in order to achieve the full benefits of the technology.Customers in demanding verticals where web performance is critical such as retail, travel and hospitality, information search and online gaming, including a Fortune 500 enterprise, are already running in production on the Instart Logic Web Application Streaming Network."Our vision for Game of Thrones was to raise the bar significantly for social games. We wanted to bring the high quality of art to the social games market and do so with incredibly fast initial load times to drive engagement," said Jon Radoff, CEO of Disruptor Beam, the company that built the game."We tried CDNs but we trusted our launch on Instart Logic because they delivered superior performance for our game. Thanks to Instart Logic's streaming tech we enjoy retention rates much higher than industry average.""In luxury retail, the image quality is paramount and users will not wait," said Keiron McCammon, CEO of luxury Internet retailer Bonfaire. "For each product we load five 'hero' images, each as large as 1.5 megabytes on every single page, even for mobile devices. Instart Logic reduced our time from click to first interaction by almost 2X and pushed rich images into our users' browsers much faster. This enables us to provide magazine-like graphical experiences and significantly boost our transactions."Story continuesTo learn more about the Instart Logic Web Application Streaming Network™ visit http://www.instartlogic.com/product/. Or, contact Instart Logic to request a performance evaluation today.About Instart Logic Instart Logic provides the world's first Web Application Streaming Network. It is the only web performance solution with built-in intelligence that understands a web application and how the browser consumes it. Intelligent streaming allows users to interact with a web page or application with only a partial download almost immediately. This is especially useful for improving user experiences over wireless network connections. Instart Logic empowers web publishers to deliver current and next-generation rich web applications that dramatically boost user engagement, increase customer loyalty and drive new revenue streams. Instart Logic is funded by Andreessen Horowitz, Greylock Partners, Sutter Hill Ventures, Tenaya Capital, and several notable Silicon Valley angel investors.