LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jun 13, 2013) - Today Maginatics Inc.  is exhibiting its flagship platform, MagFS, at HP Discover 2013, being held at the Venetian Resort Hotel in Las Vegas, NV. Visit us in booth 2059a to see how the combination of MagFS and HP public cloud enables enterprises and other large organizations to leverage the economics and agility of cloud storage to enhance productivity as a competitive advantage without altering data governance practices and user or administrative workflows.MagFS solves some of the most pressing problems experienced by organizations facing explosive growth in unstructured data and workforce mobility. Enterprises turn to MagFS to reduce costs and enhance efficiency, productivity and business agility without sacrificing security or control. In contrast to the myriad point-products addressing the same set of problems targeted by MagFS, Maginatics employs a differentiated technological approach: an elastic distributed file system that overlays object storage and stretches all the way to the endpoint devices themselves. Its general-purpose architecture enables MagFS to address a range of hot-button problems facing enterprises today, including:"In-cloud file system." Organizations in the life sciences, media and entertainment and other verticals with core competencies in high-performance computing can use the cloud as an infinite pool of capacity to run transient HPC workloads, dramatically changing the economics of running these workloads.
"NAS consolidation." Enterprises seeking to consolidate file services at branches can use MagFS to meet these goals while delivering efficient, anywhere, any-device access to centrally managed content.
"Enterprise-grade file sharing." With MagFS, any organization regardless of size can quickly deploy a fully secure, highly-scalable and user-friendly file sharing and collaboration solution.
Whatever the use case or industry served, MagFS is delivered as pure software (not a hardware appliance or service) that is deployed by central IT in its own data center to provide enterprise-grade services to its end-users and other stakeholders.About Maginatics Maginatics simplifies and modernizes enterprise storage. Its flagship product, MagFS, frees data from many of the constraints of physical infrastructure just as server virtualization does for workloads. MagFS allows enterprises and their distributed, mobile workforces to leverage the benefits of cloud storage with the security, manageability and file system simplicity of traditional storage infrastructure. When deployed as an in-cloud file system, MagFS also enhances the cloud, making it a perfect platform for running parallel computational workloads. Additional information on the company and products can be found at www.Maginatics.com.