LONDON, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Jun 13, 2013) -
Nothing pleases friends and family more than the great taste of homemade preserves. Capture the peak flavour of fresh summer fruits and vegetables with Club House No Cook Freezer Jam and Club House Pickling Spice.With Club House No Cooker Freezer Jam, impressing jam lovers has nev er been so easy. In less than 30 minutes and without any cooking, any flavour of homemade jam can be prepared. This style of jam has 40 per cent less sugar than regular strawberry jam and is fat free. The secret to this softer and more spreadable jam is that it contains carrageenan, a thickener extracted from red seaweed, so the same amount of fruit and sugar can be used for all types of jam. This is not the case for regular pectin jams. It is also perfect as a tart or cookie filling, or as a topping for ice cream, yogurt, pancakes and cheesecakes.But pleasing friends and family doesn't end with great tasting jam. With no MSG, trans-fat or artificial colours and flavours, Club House Pickling Spice packs a flavourful punch to pickles and relishes. This perfect blend of 11 herbs and spices takes the guesswork out of creating great tasting vegetable preserves and is also a flavourful addition to pot roasts, spiced fruits, sauerbraten and game. It even comes in a re-sealable stand-up pouch to preserve freshness for added convenience.Both Club House No Cook Freezer Jam and Club House Pickling Spice are available at all major grocery outlets across Canada. The No Cook Freezer Jam retails for $1.89 and is available in the Produce or Canning aisles. The Pickling Spice is $3.99 and is available in the Spice aisle. A full list of ingredients, nutritional information and flavourful recipes for both products can be found at www.clubhouse.ca.McCormick Canada is a wholly-owned subsidiary of McCormick & Company, Inc., a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, seasonings, specialty foods and flavours to the entire food industry - retail outlets, food manufacturers and food service businesses (www.clubhouse.ca). McCormick Canada, in business for more than 125 years, is pleased to note its Club House brand is now the 62nd largest brand in Canada (Nielsen, 2012). McCormick Canada recently won the London Chamber of Commerce Business Achievement Award in the large Business category.