TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Jun 12, 2013) -Editors Note: There is a photo associated with this release.What started with a pint of beer by candlelight has culminated into nearly $95,000 donation in support of Earth Day Canada.On June 12th Steve Abrams, Co-Founder of Mill Street Brewery presented Jed Goldberg, President of Earth Day Canada with a cheque for $94,358.50 at the annual Earth Day Canada Gala in Toronto. The donation is the result of Mill Street Brewery's month-long fundraising initiative "Pint for the Planet" which launched in March. Earth Hour, a global event that encourages participants to turn off their lights for one hour to raise awareness for climate change, kicked off the fundraising drive.From March 23rd to April 22nd Mill Street Brewery's Pint for the Planet campaign donated 50 cents to Earth Day Canada from every pint sold at participating venues across the country. An additional 50 cents was donated for every six pack of Mill Street beer sold in Ontario, Alberta and British Columbia. In just three years Pint for the Planet has garnered more than $250,000 in support of Earth Day Canada. This year marks the largest donation from Mill Street to date."Our partnership with Earth Day Canada stems from a shared passion for what we do and we are honoured to team up through the Pint for the Planet campaign," says Abrams. "In our 10 years in the industry we have seen a steady growth in appreciation for craft beer. We're happy to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the Earth Day Canada Gala and see the same growth in appreciation for their environmental awareness efforts."The 10th Annual Earth Day Canada Gala was celebrated by hundreds of supporters from the business and arts communities celebrating environmental leadership. The gala was hosted by Canadian comedy icon and social activist, Mary Walsh and included a keynote speech from Tzeporah Berman, author and co-founder of PowerUp Canada.Mill Street Brewery has an ongoing reputation as an environmental leader in the craft brewing industry and currently supports more than 20 environmental groups. Their support of Earth Day Canada includes sponsoring the "Hometown Heroes Small Business Award" program which recognizes and celebrates environmental leaders who create meaningful community awareness and action. The winner receives a $10,000 charitable donation in support of their initiatives. Mill Street introduced Ontario's first certified organic lager in 2002 using 100% raw materials that are pesticide and herbicide-free.About Mill Street Mill Street Brewery was founded in Toronto's historic Distillery District in December 2002. Connecting Canada's proud brewing heritage with today's innovative craft beer scene, Mill Street has been named "Canadian Brewery of the Year" at the Canadian Brewing Awards on three separate occasions. The Mill Street Coffee Porter recently earned the title of "Beer of the Year" at the 2012 Ontario Brewing Awards. With brewpub locations in Toronto and Ottawa, Mill Street has a unique selection of craft beers available year-round at liquor stores, bars and restaurants across Canada, including: Original Organic Lager, Stock Ale, Tankhouse Ale, Belgian Wit Beer, Lemon Tea Beer, Coffee Porter and newly released Cobblestone Stout.About Earth Day Canada Earth Day Canada (EDC), a national environmental charity founded in 1990, provides Canadians with the practical knowledge and tools they need to lessen their impact on the environment. In 2004 it was recognized as the top environmental education organization in North America, for its innovative year-round programs and educational resources, by the Washington-based North American Association for Environmental Education, the world's largest association of environmental educators. In 2008 it was chosen as Canada's "Outstanding Non-profit Organization" by the Canadian Network for Environmental Education and Communication. EDC regularly partners with thousands of organizations in all parts of Canada. To donate to EDC, please visit earthday.ca/donate.To view the photo associated with this release, please visit the following link:
http://www.marketwire.com/library/20130612-MillStreet-lg.jpg