Photo courtesy of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters/Keurig Click here for high-resolution versionMoreMISSION, KS--(Marketwired - Jun 13, 2013) - (Family Features) Warm weather is characteristically associated with relaxing days by the pool and beach vacations to soak up the sun with family and friends.Waning work days, slews of sporting activities, camp carpools and a plethora of planned play dates demand daily, detailed to-do lists to successfully coordinate the madness. With this hectic lifestyle now defined as "the new normal," it is essential to pause and enjoy the simple, joyful everyday moments with our children.Though week-long family vacations may not be part of the plan, Liz Pryor, life advice expert, offers simple tips for connecting with your kids.Turn Off All Electronic Devices - For just fifteen minutes a day when you're shuffling your children to and from events, make a conscious effort to turn electronic devices off. Being fully engaged with your kids for a few moments each day will connect you in a way that only seemed possible during a fun day at the beach.
Hit the Pause Button and Get the Conversation Started - After a long day of work and warm weather activities, catch up with the kids over a refreshing cup of iced Green Mountain Naturals Lemonade. This Brew Over Ice K-cup pack is quickly made at home with your Keurig brewer and will be loved by all members of the family. The process is quick and easy and kids will love being part of it.
Plan a "Staycation" - Even though a week-long getaway may not be possible, have each child plan a one-day family "staycation" to enjoy a local park, museum or adventure in the backyard. By allowing the kids to plan the day, they'll be extra excited and involved in family time.
Pack a Picnic - Have the kids help pack a picnic of turkey sandwiches, baby carrots and an insulated bottle of ice cold Green Mountain Naturals Lemonade. For a sweet treat, dip a graham cracker in melted chocolate chips, lay on waxed paper and quickly sprinkle with chopped nuts, candy-coated chocolate or more chocolate chips. Allow to harden on the waxed paper before adding into the picnic basket and heading out for your next family adventure.
Assign Superhero Homework- Include the kids in family chores while incorporating a fun spin. Over the course of the summer, give each child a daily "mission" with an exciting title, such as Inspector of Doggy Dish or Kitchen Table King. Rotate missions regularly to mix it up.
Pryor stresses each family should mold these tips and make them their own to work in a unique way that is special just to them. Every family has its own way of communicating. It doesn't matter how you do it, as long you take time to find those moments to connect.For more warm weather drink ideas and information, visit www.brewoverice.com.About Family Features Editorial Syndicate This and other food and lifestyle content can be found at www.editors.familyfeatures.com. Family Features is a leading provider of free food and lifestyle content for use in print and online publications. Register with no obligation to access a variety of formatted and unformatted features, accompanying photos, and automatically updating Web content solutions.