MILPITAS, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 13, 2013) -
Virident Systems Inc., the performance leader in flash-based storage-class memory (SCM) solutions, today announced it will be demonstrating its vCache flash-aware integrated block cache software, which allows for higher performance and higher endurance while leveraged across all applications and hypervisors, in booth 319 at the O'Reilly Velocity Conference. The conference is being held from June 18-20 at the Santa Clara Convention Center in Santa Clara, Calif. Virident is a Gold sponsor of the Velocity Conference, an annual event that provides real-world best practices for optimizing Web pages, quality time with experts, and education devoted to Web performance and operations.Virident will showcase how vCache accelerates SAN or DAS storage by using FlashMAX II SCM devices as high-performance PCIe-attached flash cache. vCache eliminates double mapping of block addresses and provides up to six-times-higher performance and longer flash lifetime compared to third-party caching solutions built on SSDs. vCache also provides flexible sharing of flash capacity among multiple caches and can co-exist with users' current backend storage and IT storage-management policies. Part of the Virident FlashMAX Connect software suite, vCache allows customers to choose between write-back, write-through and write-around caching modes to fit the needs of their applications.To learn more about Virident's FlashMAX Connect and vCache software, visit http://www.virident.com.About Virident SystemsVirident Systems is a leading provider of enterprise-class Storage Class Memory (SCM) solutions that deliver unconditional, consistent performance to data-intensive applications. The inherent advantage associated with this disruptive technology revolutionizes computing by speeding application response time and optimizing datacenter efficiency for new levels of ROI. Virident Systems is backed by strategic investors Intel®, Cisco® Systems, Seagate and a storage solutions provider, as well as Hercules Technology Growth Capital and venture investors Artiman Ventures, Sequoia Capital, Globespan Capital Partners, and Mitsui Global Investments. For more information, visit www.virident.com.Virident, Virident FlashMAX, FlashMAX Connect and the Virident logo are trademarks of Virident Systems. All other products and services listed herein are trademarks of their respective companies.