VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Mar 6, 2014) -
Falco Pacific Resource Group Inc. ("Falco Pacific" or the "Company") (TSX VENTURE:FPC) announces the granting of incentive stock options to certain of its consultants to purchase up to 300,000 common shares in its capital stock at a price of $0.70 per share, exercisable for a period of three years. 100,000 of the stock options are being granted to Torrey Hills Capital, Inc. ("Torrey Hills"), in accordance with the terms of the investor relations services agreement entered into between the Company and Torrey Hills (the "Torrey Hills Agreement"). The options granted to Torrey Hills will vest quarterly over twelve months. Upon termination of the Torrey Hills Agreement, any vested options will be cancelled after 30 days in accordance with the provisions of the Company's stock option plan and the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange.About Falco Pacific Resource GroupFounded in 2012 with the acquisition of the 728 square kilometre Rouyn Noranda Project in Quebec, Falco Pacific is focussed on the evaluation of precious and base metal targets in one of the world's great mining camps. Horne 5 Deposit represents the largest, partially developed gold deposit in the southern portion of the Abitibi greenstone belt. Horne 5 is one of a number of known zones of gold and gold-base metal mineralization, which form the Horne Mine Complex, centered around the former producing Horne copper-gold deposit.For more information, please go to www.falcopacific.com.On behalf of the Board of Directors of FALCO PACIFIC RESOURCE GROUPKelly Klatik, President and CEONeither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this press release.This news release contains forward-looking statements and forward-looking information (together, "forward-looking statements") within the meaning of applicable securities laws and the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include terms of the transaction, including acquisition costs, shares to be issued and approval of the TSX Venture Exchange and future plans. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results, performance, prospects and opportunities to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements include those risks set out in the Company's public documents filed on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. Although the Company believes that the assumptions and factors used in preparing the forward-looking statements are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on these statements, which only apply as of the date of this news release, and no assurance can be given that such events will occur in the disclosed times frames or at all. Except where required by law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.This press release is not, and is not to be construed in any way as, an offer to buy or sell securities in the United States.