SAN DIEGO, CA--(Marketwired - Mar 6, 2014) - Spring forward into more chances to win at Barona Resort and Casino on Sunday March 9 for a Daylight Savings Celebration. Players will enjoy 7x the points at slots, keno and video poker as well as Party People and Casino Manager games, cash mobs and food giveaways!"The clocks may jump forward an hour for Daylight Savings but our players aren't losing any time on the casino floor," said Rick Salinas, general manager of Barona Resort & Casino. "We're giving away hundreds with our Casino Manager games!"On Sunday March 9 from 9 a.m. until noon players will receive 7x the points on slots, keno and video poker. From noon until 9 p.m. the Barona Party People will host games with individual prizes up to $200. Other promotions will include Casino Manager games, Lucky Dealer drawings, cash mobs and food mobs. 7x the points on slots, keno and video poker will return from 9 p.m. until midnight.Recent winner of the U-T San Diego best of award for Best Casino and Loosest Slots, Barona has 2,000 slots and video poker machines. Additionally, the casino features over 80 table games including Blackjack, Pai Gow Poker, Caribbean Stud, Barona Craps, Three-Card Poker, Four-Card Poker, Mississippi Stud, Let It Ride, Baccarat and Barona Roulette, as well as the latest innovations in chipless gaming including, Chipless Three-Card Poker and Chipless Blackjack™. Barona has recently added Sic Bo and Barona Pan 9 to Barona's Asian gaming pit which is the largest Asian gaming pit in San Diego.About Barona Resort & Casino
Barona Resort & Casino, an AAA Four Diamond rated property, blends the best of San Diego's leading resorts with the gaming excitement of Las Vegas. Barona features 400 guest rooms and suites all with beautiful views of the Barona Valley, a variety of award-winning dining options, the AmBience Day Spa, a full-service events center and the 18-hole championship Barona Creek Golf Club, rated the 4th best resort course in California by Golfweek magazine. For Barona Resort & Casino reservations and information, visit www.barona.com, or call toll free 888-7-BARONA (722-7662). You can also join Barona on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Foursquare.