In the past two years, Reboot Marketing has added 10 jobs while rising to No. 304 on Inc. magazine's list of 500 fastest growing U.S companies. Partner Allen Baler says the key is hiring self-starters.View photosNashville, Tenn., United States / ACCESSWIRE / March 6th, 2014 / Doing its part to help the economy during uncertain times, Reboot Marketing LLC (www.RebootMarketing.com) of Nashville, Tenn., has added 10 jobs over the past two years while becoming one of Inc. magazine’s top 500 fastest growing U.S. companies. The swiftly growing firm provides a variety of products that help people become more self-reliant and independent.Fulltime and part-time positions that have been filled recently by the company include operations director, program manager, advertising director, customer service manager, accounting director and managing editor.“Growing our staff from one to 10 employees in a short period of time has been very exciting for us,” said Reboot Marketing Partner Allen Baler. “To be honest, when I first launched this company in 2008, I was a little nervous about hiring people. I felt like managing employees would take up so much of my time that I wouldn’t be able to do what I needed to do to grow the company.“But I learned that the key is hiring self-starters who only need to be pointed in the right direction and then allowed to utilize the skills for which they were chosen. I still have plenty of interaction with our employees and continue to provide them with direction, but their ability to move the ball up the field on their own and as a team allows me to focus on company growth, and that playbook is working very well for us.”Reboot Marketing was 304th on the Inc. 500 list (www.Inc.com/profile/reboot-marketing) for 2013, which measured revenue growth from 2009 through 2012. To qualify for consideration for Inc.’s annual list, companies must be independent, privately held and based in the U.S. The list has been published since 1982.Reboot Marketing products include:* Power4Patriots (www.Power4Patriots.com), a series of Do-It-Yourself videos and manuals (printed and electronic) showing how to build solar panels, a wind turbine, a solar water heater and a solar air heater.* SurvivalSeeds4Patriots (www.SurvivalSeeds4Patriots.com), a seed vault containing approximately 5,640 survival seeds from 21 varieties of heirloom and non-genetically modified seeds, rated for five-plus years of storage.* Food4Patriots (www.Food4Patriots.com), a long-term food survival solution consisting of pre-packaged kits of survival food rated for 25 years of storage, available in 72-hour, four-week and three-month supplies.* Water4Patriots (www.Water4Patriots), scheduled to launch in the first quarter of 2014. One of the products to be offered under this umbrella is the LifeStraw personal water filter, designed to provide the user with safe, clean drinking water in any situation.Reboot Marketing’s full-color, 16-page monthly newsletter titled the Patriot Alliance Messenger (www.PatriotAlliance.com) and the company’s blog site (www.PatriotHeadquarters.com) provide readers with information on essential subjects including privacy, solar/wind power, survival seeds, home and self-defense, healthcare and much more, so that they can become more self-reliant and independent from government and big business.Story continuesVisit http://www.rebootmarketing.com/ for more information.Contact InfoName: Tim Bates Organization: Reboot Marketing Email: timm@rebootmarketing.comView photos