LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jan 5, 2014) -
Blacksumac today announced that it has been named an International CES Innovations 2014 Design and Engineering Awards Honoree for Piper, the Wi-Fi-enabled all-in-one home automation and security device. Blacksumac will be demonstrating Piper at the Z-Wave Alliance Pavilion at 2014 International CES in Las Vegas, Nevada from January 7 through 10. Piper, which debuted its successful crowdfunding campaign on Indiegogo in August 2013, is the first home security and automation device that combines panoramic video, Z-Wave home automation and environmental sensors into a single elegant product that users interact with on their smartphones or tablets. Piper will launch general availability to North America in mid-January 2014.Products entered in CES Innovations 2014 Design and Engineering Awards program are judged by a preeminent panel of independent industrial designers, independent engineers and members of the trade media to honor outstanding design and engineering in cutting edge consumer electronics products across 29 product categories. Products chosen as Innovations honorees reflect innovative design and engineering of the entries."The smart home of tomorrow is here, and Piper is at the forefront of the movement, enabling simpler and intuitive home security and automation," said Russell Ure, co-founder of Blacksumac, Inc. "We are thrilled that Piper has been recognized by the Consumer Electronics Association for its compact and intelligent design and simple yet powerful technology."The ubiquity of smartphones, Wi-Fi and remote access has made concepts like smart homes more reality and less science fiction. Previously those who wanted to secure, interact and control their homes had to purchase expensive, large and complex systems, which wasn't typically a possibility for renters. With more capabilities than a webcam and without the hassle of contracts or monthly fees, the compact and elegant Piper is the ultimate solution, acting as the eyes and ears of the home and enabling easy monitoring and interaction via a smartphone and Wi-Fi connection.Piper features include:Security -- 3 customizable security modes, motion detector and piercing siren Automation -- Integrate Z-Wave accessories into Piper's security modes, control them remotely, on a schedule, or using environmental data HD Panoramic camera -- 180° fisheye lens, electronic pan, tilt, and zoom, 1080p camera sensor Customized alerts -- Phone call, text message, email, and push notifications to users and their trusted circle when security rules are triggered Environmental sensors -- Monitor and control home temperature, humidity, ambient light and sound Elegant design -- Simple, intuitive app. Compact, two-toned form with brushed metal legs. Smart hardware -- ARM processor, battery backup, internal memory for video storage, 802.11b/g/n Wi-Fi. Android & iOS -- Available on Android and iOS smartphones and tablets Free cloud storage -- Cloud infrastructure provides Piper a place to store event videos, send various types of notifications and perform additional login/connection negotiationBlacksumac's Piper will be demonstrated at The Z-Wave Alliance Pavilion at Booth # 20800 in South Hall 1 in The Venetian at the 2014 International CES, which runs January 7-10, 2014 in Las Vegas, Nevada. CES Innovations Honorees will be displayed at the Innovations Showcase at The Venetian, Level 2, Hall D, Booth #72063 from Tuesday, January 7 to Friday, January 10, and products will be featured on CESweb.org/Innovations. Piper will launch general availability to North America in mid-January 2014.About Blacksumac Blacksumac is the creator of Piper and was founded in 2012 by Russell Ure and John Criswick. Blacksumac is an Ottawa startup engaged in engineering design and technology development. The company's product focus is remote presence-based smart home and business technology. For more information, please visit the company page at www.blacksumac.com and Piper product page at www.getpiper.com. Follow and like Piper on Facebook and Twitter.