SurveyJet has published a special update to its review of Survey Savvy, confirming that this market research company offers the highest paid surveys currently available on the internet.View photosChicago, IL United States of America / January 5th, 2014 / ACCESSWIRE / Today’s struggling economy does not show many signs of expected recovery. Global economic downturn forced more and more people into a search for additional income. Some elected to opt for a second job on the physical market, but some turned to the Internet searching for new ideas. At first glance internet could be the obvious place to look for some extra income, but that doesn’t mean money would be just handed over. There are indeed multiple options to earn money online, with many different levels of difficulty. Generally, it is safe to say that the easier the task, the smaller the reward. One of such easy ways of making money on the web is taking online surveys. There are hundreds, maybe thousands of online survey panels currently operating on the internet that offer surveys. Due to a large number of such sites, it is very difficult for the average individual to differentiate between legitimate survey panels and scams.SurveyJet aims to provide accurate and reliable information about paid surveys to all interested in the subject. Every page of the website is dedicated to visitors that look for first hand perspective on market research companies that offer online paid surveys to their members. Such perspective is very valuable to anyone interested and willing to participate in survey data collection about their experience with specific products or services.This latest review update is dedicated to Survey Savvy, a well known and respected survey panel that conducts market research through their online platform.Overview of the panel starts with SurveyJet’s basic evaluation of member experience: estimated number of surveys per week, their length and expected incentives. Visitors are able to view high definition pictures of checks paid by the panel as well as a YouTube.com based video showing examples of real survey invitations. Review then analyzes other forms of research participation provided by Survey Savvy such as focus groups and telephone interviews. Full review goes over mechanics of the site, how it works, its features, settings and payment options. Opinion on whether or not the site is a scam concludes the review.Survey Savvy website has been placed at the top of the reviewer’s favorite list that consists of 20 well-known and legitimate survey sites.A spokesperson for SurveyJet explained, “Survey Savvy Review is just one of many reviews provided by SurveyJet. They are all dedicated to help people to better understand surveys and survey panels: how they work, what to expect from them and, most importantly, what to watch out for. Tips and guidelines provided by SurveyJet are designed to help individuals to effectively and easily earn extra money by participating in market research through online surveys. All reviews are honest and provide visitors with real and undeniable proof that making substantial amount of money with surveys is indeed possible. Images of real payments and real survey invitations, along with feedback from other survey takers, provide very transparent image of reviewed market research companies. Our visitors can trust what they see and read as our reviews are frequently updated, as no survey company stays the same forever. Survey landscape changes constantly with new sites emerging and some closing their doors. Acquisitions and expansions are also very common in market research world. Our visitors can count on SurveyJet to keep them up to date.”Story continuesAbout SurveyJet: SurveyJet is a personal review website of Sylwester Kopec. He is a survey taker and columnist who managed to support his family’s budget creating supplemental income by taking online surveys for money. His website systematically reviews and evaluates new and old survey panels providing visitors with media enhanced in-depth analyses, high definition images and videos. Existing reviews are regularly updated and new reviews are generated as soon as new (and significant) survey panel joins the market.Visit http://www.surveyjet.net/ for more information.Contact Info Name: Sylwester Kopec
Organization: Webjet Enterprise Ltd
Phone: (773) 505 7359View photos