Vancouver, BC / ACCESSWIRE / March 7, 2014 / Abattis Bioceuticals Corp. (the "Company" or "Abattis") (OTC PINK: ATTBF) (CSE:ATT), wishes to amend the March 6th news release as follows:-To correct the spelling of the domain mentioned to: (www.phytalab.com) of Kenmore, Washington.-To announce that three consultants will receive a total of 827,657 Common Shares of Abattis Bioceuticals Corp.About Abattis Bioceuticals Corp.Abattis is a specialty biotechnology company with capabilities through its wholly owned subsidiaries of cultivating, licensing and marketing proprietary ingredients, bio-similar compounds, patented equipment and consulting services to medicinal markets in North America. The company is positioned to capitalize on the fast growing trend toward marijuana legalization in the United States and for medicinal use in Canada and international jurisdictions by supplying and partnering with companies to employ its vertical cultivation systems, extraction equipment/technology, and strategic marketing support to licensed growers. The company also has an extensive pipeline of high-quality products and Intellectual Property for the rapidly expanding botanical drug market. We follow strict Standard Operating Protocols and adhere to the Law's of Canada and Foreign Jurisdictions. For more information, visit the Company's website at www.abattis.com.For further information, contact the Company's CEO, Michael Withrow at (778) 896-6536 or at mike.withrow@abattis.com.NEITHER THE CANADIAN SECURITIES EXCHANGE NOR ITS REGULATIONS SERVICES PROVIDER HAVE REVIEWED OR ACCEPT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ADEQUACY OR ACCURACY OF THIS RELEASE.FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATIONThis press release contains forward-looking statements. The use of any of the words "anticipate", "continue", "estimate", "expect", "may", "will", "project", "should", "believe" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations and assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements because the Company can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Since forward-looking statements address future events and conditions, by their very nature they involve inherent risks and uncertainties. These statements speak only as of the date of this press release. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors and risks various risk factors discussed in the Company's Management's Discussion and Analysis for the nine months ended June 30, 2013 and filed on August 29, 2013 and for the year ended September 30, 2012 and filed on January 28, 2013 under the Company's profile on www.sedar.com.
While the Company may elect to, it does not undertake to update this information at any particular time.