OTTAWA, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Mar 8, 2014) -
Mr. Gordon Moore, Dominion President of The Royal Canadian Legion, acknowledged the United Nations' theme for International Women's Day for 2014: "Equality for Women is Progress for All" by recognizing the social, political and economic achievements of women past, present and future on this special day."From the perspective of our Veterans, women have always supported their country and their communities from taking on new roles when their husbands and sons went off to war, to being part of our front-line fighting force. From humble beginnings, women's roles have continued to evolve. This was particularly evident beginning in 1901 when women served as nurses overseas. Today, our women proudly serve in all aspects to uphold the freedoms we enjoy today," says Moore."Women achieved employment equity and equal pay in the military in 1989 when all branches of the Canadian Armed Forces were opened to women," adds Moore. "I congratulate the Canadian military for realizing that one's ability and not one's gender should be the litmus test for service in the Military. For these same reasons the Legion salutes our military women on this special day and proudly welcomes serving and retired servicewomen in the Legion," says Moore."Likewise, we salute our Ladies' Auxiliary. During WWI, as wounded soldiers returned home, women were asked to help with their recovery by visiting hospitals, sending parcels to the hospitalized and to needy families. While their roles may have changed over the years, the women of the Ladies' Auxiliary deserve a moment of recognition on this the International Women's Day's 103rd anniversary, for their continued outstanding support for our military members, Veterans and their families," concludes Moore.In 2012, The Royal Canadian Legion marked 70 years of service by Canada's military women by sponsoring several activities and issuing a special commemorative pin.ABOUT THE LEGIONEstablished in 1926, the Legion is the largest Veterans' and community support organization in Canada with more than 320,000 members. Its mission is to serve all Veterans including serving Canadian Armed Forces and Royal Canadian Mounted Police members as well as their families, to promote Remembrance and to serve our communities and our country.The Legion's Service Bureau Network provides assistance and representation to all Veterans regarding their disability claims, benefits and services from Veterans Affairs Canada and the Veterans Review and Appeal Board. In communities across Canada it is the Legion that perpetuates Remembrance through the Poppy Campaign and Remembrance Day ceremonies. With more than 1, 460 branches, the Legion supports programs for seniors, Veterans' housing, outreach and visitation, youth leadership, education, sports, Cadets, Guides and Scouts.We Will Remember Them.