YOUNGSTOWN, OH--(Marketwired - Mar 7, 2014) - As a facilitator of closing transactions exclusively for the timeshare industry, In Less Time Closings LLC speeds up the title transfer process through a minimalistic system directed by a group of executives with extensive knowledge in the timeshare industry. In Less Time Closings LLC speeds up the transfer process while saving owners from accruing more maintenance fees for their dormant timeshare ownership.The Timeshare Users Group, otherwise known as TUG, is a marketplace and community for individuals that are interested in timeshare properties. In Less Time Closings LLC would like to address a recent forum discussion that was published on October 14th of last year to tugbbs.com, the online forum community for TUG. The TUG user states that a timeshare transfer company going by the name of Pacific Property Transfers is one in the same as In Less Time Closings LLC.In Less Time Closings LLC would like to formally state that In Less Time Closings LLC and Pacific Property Transfer are not the same entity. Through preliminary research alone, this claim is easily refuted. It is clear that these are two different entities based on the fact that In Less Time Closings, LLC is accredited with the BBB while Pacific Property Transfer is not. After further review of each company's Better Business Bureau profile you will be provided with different phone numbers, addresses, and, most notably, different grades of rating.In Less Time Closings LLC provides timeshare transfer services to a very large demographic of timeshare owners. In some situations these timeshare owners enlist the services of In Less Time Closings LLC because a previous timeshare transfer service had failed to follow through with the transfer agreement. Based on the "F" rating that Pacific Property Transfer maintains with the Better Business Bureau, it would seem that this is exactly what has caused the identity confusion between these two companies.Story continuesIn Less Time Closings LLC has great concern for its clients and has been receiving negative feedback based solely from the allegation that originated from the TUG online community forum. Due to the nature of online forums the credibility of user claims should always be verified thoroughly.About In Less Time ClosingsIn Less Time Closings exclusively handles timeshare transfers in order to offer expertise and dedication to clients. Each professional working for the company has experience with the entire process of transferring a timeshare title from start to finish. Clients can contact the office at (330) 333-3687 for more information about title transfer services and pricing.