6 top industry leaders on Information Communication and Technology (ICT) Speak Up to educators about must haves for today's career minded studentsOrange County, CA / ACCESSWIRE / March, 7th 2014 / Today, on the Irvine campus of Cisco Systems (Nasdaq:CSCO), Monster Arts Inc. (APPZ) announces that it's CEO, Wayne Irving II, is speaking to a group of college and high school level technology educators and job counselors, as part of a group of local leaders that are fellow members of the Orange County Department of Education Information and Communication Technology Regional Advisory Board. The topics covered where focused on preparing college and high-school students for jobs in Hi-Tech and how educators can adjust their curriculums to give their students a competitive edge.The California Community Colleges System (http://www.cccco.edu/), the Department of Education in Orange County, and Vital Link(http://www.vitallinkoc.org/) are coordinating this Symposium as part of an overall effort to assure that students are being taught current industry skills requirements. Mr. Irving is part of a selected board comprised of knowledgeable professionals within the Information & Communications Technology fields and acts as an advisor to the career technical educators in the school systems throughout Orange County.Mr. Irving spoke on topics beyond a students need to be only "technical savvy or technical trained" and covered methods and the importance for educators to nurture students and encourage them to take risks and prepare them to be good workers, not just good at "writing code". Mr. Irving also spoke on the importance of technology training in other job descriptions that one would not be good at managing a technical project per-se without the fundamental technology education that our educators provide."I was touched by the line of people wanting to chat after my speaking. I simply feel like there is a right way to do things and a today's way. While both are valid, the right way to do things get's you further faster with more fulfillment. I appreciate that many educators do care and appreciated my point of view."“We strongly believe that working together and collaborating with the Information and Communication Technology industries can help ensure students get the skills, knowledge and abilities essential to meet the high demands in the industry,” commented Helen Ramirez, Business Partner Coordinator at Vital Link. “We are thrilled to have Mr. Irving sit on the Board and present today, especially with his intimate knowledge of Smartphone application development and his success within the growing mobility space.”Today's Information Communication Technology event and breakout sessions were held at CISCO Systems (CSCO) Headquarters, located at 130 Theory, in Irvine, CA 92617 on March 7th, 2014 from 8:30 am - 1:00 pm PST.About Monster Arts Inc.:Monster Arts is a leading mobile marketing and app technology innovator, designing a variety of mobile apps for purchase and download by the retail consumer, and assisting business clients with online marketing through its Travel America Visitor Guide, mobile app design services, crowd funding consulting services, and Daily Deal information management and analytics. Monster Arts select partner lists include Mind Solutions Inc (OTCQB:VOIS), Wowio Inc (http://www.wowio.com/), Worlds Online Inc (OTCQB:WORX), and Intelligent Living Inc (OTCQB:ILIV), to name a few.More information about Monster Arts can be found by visiting the company's website located at http://www.monsterarts.net/ or emailing: info@monsterarts.net.Any statements contained in this press release that relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks associated with the management appointment described in this press release, and other risks identified in the filings by Monster Arts, Inc. (APPZ), with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Further information on risks faced by APPZ are detailed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and in its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. These filings are or will become available on a website maintained by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission athttp://www.sec.gov/. The information contained in this press release is accurate as of the date indicated. Actual results, events or performance may differ materially. Monster Arts does not undertake any obligation to publicly release the any revision to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements will prove to have been correct. The company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.Source: Monster Arts Inc.