NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Mar 7, 2014) - Raptor Group & Roc Nation / Live Nation are partnering for the 3rd Annual Raptor House from March 8th-11th in Austin, TX. An oasis away from the downtown crowds, Raptor House is a place where top executives, thought leaders and influencers can entertain, be entertained, explore, discover, learn, and connect. Roc Nation / Live Nation at Raptor House will be presented by Jawbone with media partner AOL and Huff Post Live. For the last two years Raptor House has drawn a highly curated group of innovators across varying industries for three days of panel discussions, networking, deal making and music. "Raptor House was born out of the need to have quieter, more substantial conversations around the incredible opportunities that the organizers of SXSW provide," said Raptor Group Founder Jim Pallotta.Each day at Raptor House will focus on disruption in a specific industry and how advancements in technology and media have impacted the worlds of brands, music & entertainment and sports. This year's lineup of panelists and speakers will feature some of the leading figures in each industry, including: Chanel President and COO John Galantic, Pepsi Senior Director of Cultural Branding Javier Farfan, Skullcandy CEO Hoby Darling, Spotify Head of Content Steve Savoca, DreamWorks Head of Digital Marking Justin Pertschuk, Factory Made Ventures CEO and Co Founder of El Rey Network John Fogelman, Commissioner of Major League Soccer Don Garber, President of AOL Video Ran Harnevo, Nate Silver, ESPN's Marie O'Donohue, Boston Celtics President Rich Gothamn, San Francisco 49ers Chief Operating Officer Al Guido, Houston Rockets General Manager Daryl Morey, as well as organizers Raptor Group Founder Jim Pallotta, Live Nation President of Media & Sponsorships Russell Wallach, Roc Nation Sports Director of Marketing Evan Levine, Jawbone Vice President of Product Management & Strategy Travis Bogard and many more.Each evening at Raptor House attendees will be treated performances by some of the best emerging and iconic talent in the music industry both outdoors as well as inside Austin's premiere recording facility, Arlyn Studios. Raptor House has become the place where people come to experience unforgettable music moments: from Jimmy Cliff's acoustic performance (introduced by Robert Plant) to a surprise late night performance by the legendary Willie Nelson; from K'naan playing an impromptu hour long full-band acoustic set to J. Cole previewing new tracks from his Born Sinner album; and from an intimate performance by Solange, to early career performances by Haim, The Mowglis, Caveman, Rudimental and more. Early in the evening on Tuesday, March 11th HBO & Game of Thrones will present a special listening party for the first Game of Thrones mixtape, entitled Catch The Throne: The Mixtape. In celebration of the April 6th Season 4 debut of the Emmy®-and Golden Globe-winning HBO series, Raptor House attendees will have the opportunity to hear the mixtape in full and watch live performances from Magazeen and Dee Goodz (both featured on the mixtape). Catch The Throne: The Mixtape also includes exclusive tracks from Wale, Big Boi, Common and Daddy Yankee, in addition to songs from up-and-coming artists Snow Tha Product, Bodega Bamz, and more.ABOUT RAPTOR Raptor Group is a non-traditional, alternative investment firm focused on areas of tech, consumer and sports. Founded in 2009 by hedge fund veteran Jim Pallotta (formerly Vice Chair of Tudor Investments, Essex) Raptor's hybrid model is changing the private investment paradigm into one of strategic, operational and financial partnership. Some current investments include Roma soccer team, Spartan Race, Nic and Zoe, Sonic Notify, Krush and The Fancy.ABOUT ROC NATION Founded in 2008, Roc Nation is a full-service entertainment company, inclusive of artist, songwriter, producer and engineer management; music publishing; touring & merchandising; film & television; new business ventures; and a music label. It is home to a diverse roster comprised of critically acclaimed recording artists, writers and producers including Rihanna, Shakira, J Cole, Rita Ora, Calvin Harris, NO ID, Timbaland, Santigold, deadmau5, Wale, etc. Roc Nation has a partnership with global management company, Three Six Zero.