MT. PLEASANT, SC--(Marketwired - Aug 23, 2013) - Total Beverage Solution (TBS), a beverage alcohol importer and supplier based in Mt. Pleasant, S.C., has introduced www.tizianowine.com, an engaging and informative website to tout their exciting line of Tiziano Italian Wines. This new website has been constructed to seamlessly deliver information about wine, food and wine pairings, social events, and recipes. The site embodies Tiziano's motto of "Celebrate the simple pleasures in life, and the moments in between." The new site delivers the message that wine is a lifestyle choice -- and that Italian wines need not cost a fortune.Also of interest to the food and wine lover are the series of blog posts that provide direction on a variety of topics, such as: party planning, food and wine pairing ideas, how to understand wine terminology, and a host of other wine and lifestyle insights.Understanding the impact of social media on today's consumer, Tiziano Wines fully integrates social media sites Facebook, Pinterest, and Instagram. This allows Tiziano fans to post party ideas, wine reviews, pictures of themed events, and general feedback about their Tiziano wine experience.About Tiziano Wines
Tiziano Wines, imported from Italy by Total Beverage Solution, offers five top Italian wines. From Pinot Grigio to the three varietals of Chianti, culminating in the award-winning Prosecco, Tiziano wines has earned distinction as a top quality Italian wine -- at a price point that is affordable for any wine lover. Both connoisseurs and beginning wine enthusiasts alike can locate Tiziano wines throughout most major metropolitan areas using the search tool on the company website -- www.tizianowine.com.About Total Beverage Solution: With an expansive portfolio of wine, beer and premium spirits, Total Beverage Solution (TBS) supplies the U.S. market with some of the world's most unique brands such as Germany's Weihenstephan beer, Colombo fine Marsala wine and Nectar Ales, one of the nation's pioneering microbrewers. Founded in 2002, TBS is passionate about quality and craftsmanship, and strives to work with producers to create value and demand for brands based on their individual histories and qualities. With this philosophy, TBS has quickly earned a reputation for market expertise and proven sales results. TBS is a four-time Beverage Industry Top 100 company and is headquartered in Mt. Pleasant, South Carolina, and is on the web at: www.totalbeveragesolution.com