SAN JOSE, CA--(Marketwired - Sep 10, 2013) - OCZ Technology Group, Inc. (
NASDAQ :
OCZ ), a leading provider of high-performance solid-state drives (SSDs) for computing devices and systems, today announced that it will expand its Research & Development (R&D) Center in Orange County, California which is focused on enterprise development for the company's next-generation SSDs. The company has a current presence in the area and is moving to a new expanded Irvine R&D location."Orange County, California has a rich base of engineering talent covering semiconductors and storage that makes it a viable location for us to expand our design center," said James Tout, SVP of Global Engineering for OCZ Technology. "With a leading and widely recognized portfolio of SATA, SAS and PCIe-based solid-state solutions, we believe that the opening of our new OC-based design center will attract the professional resources and talent we need to create leading-edge, next-generation enterprise products for the storage industry."As the need for faster, more reliable and cost effective storage grows in the enterprise market, OCZ is committed to enabling customers with innovative flash hardware and software solutions that solve storage challenges by accelerating application performance, optimizing IT infrastructures, and enhancing overall manageability while delivering superior total cost of ownership. The company achieves this with a wide range of innovative SSDs, based on in-house technology, and combines them with our proprietary enterprise virtualization software to create complete solid state solutions that enable users to get faster and more reliable access to critical applications and data when they need it most. OCZ is accepting employment applications for hardware designers and firmware developers with storage experience to work in the new OC-based R&D center. Interested candidates should submit a resumé online at www.ocz.com/enterprise/company/careers.For more information on OCZ's leading enterprise portfolio of PCIe, SATA III and SAS SSDs, visit www.ocz.com/enterprise.About OCZ Technology Group, Inc. Founded in 2002, San Jose, CA-based OCZ Technology Group, Inc. (OCZ) is a global leader in the design, manufacturing, and distribution of high-performance solid-state storage solutions and premium computer components. Offering a complete spectrum of solid-state drives (SSDs), OCZ provides SSDs in a variety of form factors and interfaces (i.e. PCIe, SAS and SATA) to address a wide range of client and enterprise applications. Having developed firmware and controller platforms, to virtualization and endurance extending technologies, the company delivers vertically integrated solutions enabling transformational approaches to how digital data is captured, stored, accessed, analyzed and leveraged by customers. More information is available at www.ocz.com.Forward Looking Statements Certain statements in this release relate to future events and expectations and as such constitute forward-looking statements involving known and unknown factors that may cause actual results of OCZ Technology Group, Inc. to be different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. In this context, words such as "will," "would," "expect," "anticipate," "should" or other similar words and phrases often identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of OCZ. It is important to note that actual results of OCZ may differ materially from those described or implied in such forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk that the process of preparing and auditing the financial statements or other subsequent events would require OCZ to make additional adjustments; the time and effort required to complete the restatement of the financial reports; the ramifications of OCZ's potential inability to timely file required reports; including potential delisting of OCZ's common stock on NASDAQ; the risk of litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings relating to such matters; market acceptance of OCZ's products and OCZ's ability to continually develop enhanced products; adverse changes both in the general macro-economic environment as well as in the industries OCZ serves, including computer manufacturing, traditional and online retailers, information storage, internet search and content providers and computer system integrators; OCZ's ability to efficiently manage material and inventory, including integrated circuit chip costs and freight costs; and OCZ's ability to generate cash from operations, secure external funding for its operations and manage its liquidity needs. Other general economic, business and financing conditions and factors are described in more detail in "Item 1A -- Risk Factors" in Part I in OCZ's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on May 14, 2012, and statements made in other subsequent filings. The filing is available both at www.sec.gov as well as via OCZ's website at www.ocz.com.OCZ does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.All trademarks or brand names referred to herein are the property of their respective owners.