AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Sep 11, 2013) -
IBC Amsterdam - Ubee Interactive and Airgain, Inc. today announced a collaboration where Ubee Interactive will utilize Airgain's embedded antennas, integration, testing, and wireless optimization methodology to help enhance the performance of Ubee Interactive's Wi-Fi enabled devices. The wireless performance of home Consumer Premises Equipment (CPE) has become critical as operators in Europe look for their vendors to help build the most reliable Wi-Fi enabled devices. Accelerated technology standards such as IEEE 802.11ac are being driven by consumer demands for increased bandwidth in data and video connectivity products. Wi-Fi can no longer be optional as many operators use Wi-Fi performance as part of their differentiated value when selling to consumers. Further, a dense number of homes in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa use brick wall infrastructure which rarely provides an ideal environment for optimum wireless performance. In teaming with Airgain, Ubee Interactive will build highly intelligent products for home gateway solutions in order to address consumer demands and impeding residential environments. "Airgain is a leader in throughput-focused embedded antenna technology for whole home wireless devices such as gateways," said Gilles Guittard, Vice President, Telco - EMEA - Ubee Interactive. "This collaboration with Airgain will complement Ubee research and development efforts and empower Ubee to deliver exceptional Wi-Fi performance to European customers as they begin their migration to the IEEE 802.11ac standard." Charles Myers, President and Chief Executive Officer of Airgain, said, "Operators are now looking at Wi-Fi as a mandatory mechanism to deliver not only data but video traffic as well. We are delighted to help Ubee build the best wireless-enabled CPEs that provide optimum range and throughput performance."Airgain at IBC 2013Airgain will be attending the 2013 International Broadcasting Convention in Amsterdam, held September 12 through 17th, where we will be presenting our innovative antenna systems and integration support that open exciting new possibilities in whole-home wireless data and video coverage. To learn more, please plan a visit to the Airgain Meeting Suite MS44 in Hall 13 of the RAI Exhibition and Congress Centre, Europaplein, NL-1078 GZ, Amsterdam. To schedule a meeting, contact us at ibc@airgain.com or +1 760 444 6008.About Ubee Interactive:About Ubee Interactive: Ubee is a global broadband technology company providing residential and commercial wireline and wireless solutions to service providers around the world. Ubee is also a leader in innovative small cell solutions with a portfolio consisting of femtocells, enterprise femtocells, picocells and microcells. The company's product portfolio includes data, voice, video, mobility, and portable devices with over 35 million units deployed worldwide.About Airgain:Airgain is a leading provider of high-performance smart and embedded antenna products, integration support, and test services for the in-home wireless device market. Our innovative antenna systems and validation support open exciting new possibilities in residential wireless services requiring design flexibility and reliable, whole-home wireless data and video coverage. The company supplies its embedded antenna products to original equipment and design manufacturers worldwide, and supports the broadest blue chip customer list in the industry. Airgain is headquartered in Carlsbad, California, and maintains design and test centers in Carlsbad, Taipei, Taiwan, and Suzhou, China. For more information, please visit www.airgain.com.Airgain and the Airgain logo are registered trademarks of Airgain, Inc.