ST. LOUIS, MO--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Creve Coeur Dental, which provides restorative, cosmetic, and general dentistry services, is speaking out on a new article that highlights the importance of proper oral hygiene while pregnant. The piece touches on a new study by the Centers for Disease Control, which revealed that nearly half of the women who gave birth in 2009 and 2010 in Maryland had poor oral hygiene. Besides bad breath and yellowed teeth, poor oral hygiene can also cause complications with pregnancy. Some of these issues include low birth weight and a baby that is at greater risk for infection. It can also cause a woman to go into labor early.Dr. Idalia Rosado-Torres, who is the chair of the OB/GYN department at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Maryland, notes, "All of these things you've got to look for and be careful with. I think sometimes we forget."Part of the reason for the increase in tooth problems among pregnant women comes from morning sickness. During the first trimester, women frequently experience morning sickness and can develop a condition called pregnancy gingivitis. A woman is vulnerable even if she does not suffer from nausea or vomiting.The team at Creve Coeur Dental notes, "Oral hygiene is always important, but becomes especially necessary for moms-to-be. Any oral hygiene problems that these women experience have the ability to impact a baby. A mother must do everything she can to keep herself and her child healthy and taking care of teeth and gums is a big part of that."Expectant women, such as Diana Velazquez, explain that this new information regarding the importance of oral hygiene for pregnant women has caused them to think again before skipping a dentist appointment. Velazquez explains that when she found out that oral decay and gum disease have the ability to cause pre-term labor, she was anxious to get to her dentist. Before obtaining this information, she was not as concerned with attending her twice-yearly visits.Story continuesMothers-to-be must make it a point to brush and floss daily. For those who are experiencing nausea and vomiting due to morning sickness, rinsing with water and baking soda can prove useful.The professionals at Creve Coeur Dental encourage pregnant women to speak with their dentist about how they can help to protect their teeth and their baby's health throughout the duration of their pregnancy.ABOUT:Creve Coeur Dental offers restorative, cosmetic, and general dentistry services to those living in Ladue, Frontenac, Clayton, and St. Louis, Missouri. The team is managed by Dr. Rosinski, who is committed to helping her patients achieve the bright, white smile that they have always hoped for. She and her team handle x-rays and also perform neck and head exams to ensure the total health and wellness of the patient.