SAO PAULO, BRAZIL--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Brazil Minerals, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BMIX ) ("BMIX"), a diamond and gold producer with resources and assets in Brazil, today announced that Mr. Paulo Roberto Amorim dos Santos Lima ("Paulo Amorim"), a premier Brazilian geologist with more than 40 years of field experience and author of two mining books, has joined its management team as Vice President and Head of Geology, based in Belo Horizonte, the capital of the state of Minas Gerais in Brazil. Marc Fogassa, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BMIX, stated, "We are very fortunate to have Paulo Amorim's unparalleled experience of 40 years of Brazilian field geology in our team. He is a premier name and has the essential local knowledge that one needs to operate smartly. We are focused on growing our producing diamond franchise. Paulo Amorim's strong knowledge of multiple minerals in the entire country and his professional relationships across the industry allow us incredible time savings in evaluating the strong pipeline of opportunities we have."Mr. Amorim worked for Vale S.A., a diversified Brazilian mining company with over $80 billion in current market capitalization, for over 22 years where he led the exploration and acquisitions for Vale's Precious Metals Division and headed gold and other precious metal projects and evaluations of mineral deposits in Brazil and other countries. Prior to Vale, Mr. Amorim worked for 8 years for CBMM, Companhia Brasileira de Metalurgia e Mineração, where he was the Chief Geologist for various projects in several different minerals. Previously, he was a geologist with the Brazilian nuclear company, Industrias Nucleares Brasileiras, and also with the Mineral Resource Department of Rio de Janeiro.Mr. Amorim has extensive experience and expertise in the management and development of mineral projects, and evaluation and negotiations of mineral opportunities in Brazil and other Latin America countries. His extensive experience is particularly strong in gold, titanium, vanadium, phosphate, rare earths, iron, nickel, niobium, uranium, tantalum, columbium, and fluorite. He has written two mining books and has been a Professor of Geology at the Federal University in Rio de Janeiro.About Brazil Minerals, Inc.Brazil Minerals, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BMIX ), a U.S. corporation, is a diamond and gold producer with resources and assets in Brazil. Its mining assets include an interest in Duas Barras, a diamond and gold producing mine located in the state of Minas Gerais. BMIX is exploring for gold in the state of Amazonas, and has a healthy pipeline of other opportunities throughout Brazil. Its Brazilian headquarter is in São Paulo, the financial hub of Latin America, with an operational office in Belo Horizonte, the capital of the state of Minas Gerais, a name that means "General Mines," and serves as reminder of the strength of that premier region of Brazil for natural resources. More information on BMIX, including an investor presentation, can be found at www.brazil-minerals.com.Safe Harbor Statement This press release contains forward-looking statements made under the "safe harbor" provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are based upon the current plans, estimates and projections of Brazil Minerals, Inc.'s management and are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from the forward looking statements. Such statements include, among others, those concerning market and industry segment growth and demand and acceptance of new and existing products; any projections of production, reserves, sales, earnings, revenue, margins or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; uncertainties related to conducting business in Brazil, as well as all assumptions, expectations, predictions, intentions or beliefs about future events. Therefore, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: business conditions in Brazil, general economic conditions; geopolitical events and regulatory changes, availability of capital, the BMIX's ability to maintain its competitive position and dependence on key management. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale of any securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.