Leading semiconductor solutions provider Broadcom Corp (BRCM) recently announced the expansion of its wireless internet connectivity for embedded devices (WICEF) product family with the introduction of a new Wi-Fi system-on-a-chip (SoC), named BCM4390.
This new technology, which will be exhibited at COMPUTEX TAIPEI 2013, enables connection to cloud services with a competent self-hosted software stack from a single SoC solution. The solution will offer original equipment manufacturers (:OEM) a cost-effective wireless solution. The WICED platform simplifies the implementation of Wi-Fi connectivity in a wide range of consumer devices. This further enables the OEMs to provide products for ‘Internet of Things’.
Broadcom’s BCM4390 SoC can be used in 8 and 16 bit microcontroller systems to facilitate OEMs to flawlessly deliver better connectivity to battery-operated devices for sports and fitness, health and wellness, security and automation.  Broadcom is focused on innovating technologies related to connectivity, bandwidth and content, which enable it to capture a sizeable market share. The new product line is an initiative in this endeavor. By 2020, the number of connected devices is expected to reach 30 billion, accelerated by the continuous growth of embedded products to mobile devices.
Broadcom is well placed in the fast-growing wired and wireless communications markets, with cutting-edge solutions for a growing number of connected users who are demanding more content and bandwidth.
Based in Irvine, CA, Broadcom is engaged in designing and marketing semiconductor components of network voice, video, and data traffic for various applications. The company continues to drive innovation and engineering excellence across a broad range of communication end markets to help its customers enhance device performance and overall efficiency.
Broadcom currently has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). Other stocks that look promising and are worth a look include Marvell Technology Group Ltd (MRVL), Syntel Inc (SYNT) and NeoPhotonics Corporation (NPTN), each carrying a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy).
Read the Full Research Report on BRCMRead the Full Research Report on MRVL Read the Full Research Report on NPTN Read the Full Research Report on SYNT Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read article on zacks.com