CHICAGO, IL--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) -  Cobra Electronics Corporation (
NASDAQ :
COBR ), a leading designer and marketer of award-winning marine and consumer electronics, today announced the nationwide general availability of the Cobra MR HH 350 Hand-Held Marine Radio. The feature-packed HH 350 Marine VHF Radio offers users superb value at a retail price of $99.95 It is available at Academy Sports, Bass Pro Shops, Boat Owners Warehouse, Cabela's, Crook & Crook Marine, El Capitan, Englund Marine, Gander Mountain, Hamilton Marine, Hannay's, Overtons, Tuppens Marine, West Marine and at thousands of local independent marine dealers, as well as Cobra.com.The Cobra HH 350 features six watts of power for long-range communications plus full access to all NOAA Weather Channels and Emergency Alert. The HH 350 comes in an ergonomic, ultra-compact design for ease-of-use and has the ability to float if dropped overboard. The exterior sports the Cobra signature orange case for easy visibility in water. The radio also has a noise-canceling microphone for crystal clear conversations."For almost 10 years Cobra has been designing practical and affordable communication solutions for boaters and we are pleased to be continuing that tradition with the introduction of the Cobra HH 350 Marine Radio," said Sally Washlow, President of Cobra Electronics. "This powerful new radio sets a new benchmark in value by delivering a high quality radio with high-end capabilities and features at a very reasonable price. It's a must-have for boating enthusiasts, and makes an excellent and highly reliable back-up radio for any of our fixed mount radio systems."About Cobra Electronics: Cobra Electronics is a leading global designer and marketer of communication and navigation products, with a track record of delivering innovative and award-winning products. Building upon its leadership position in the GMRS/FRS two-way radio, radar detector and Citizens Band radio industries, Cobra identified new growth opportunities and has aggressively expanded into the marine market and has expanded its European operations. The Consumer Electronics Association, Forbes and Deloitte & Touche have all recognized Cobra for the company's innovation and industry leadership. To learn more about Cobra Electronics, please visit the Cobra site at www.cobra.com. Follow Cobra on Twitter at www.twitter.com/CobraElectronic and Like Us at www.facebook.com/CobraElectronics.