SUNNYVALE, CA and CAMBRIDGE, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Infinera (
NASDAQ :
INFN ), a leading provider of Digital Optical Networks, and DANTE (Delivery of Advanced Network Technology to Europe) announced today the fastest known provisioning of multi-Terabit capacity across a live network. Infinera and DANTE망ere able to install and activate 2 Terabits per second (Tb/s) of long haul super-channel optical capacity and provision a 100 Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) service over the G테NT production network all in less than 12 minutes from plugging in the first line card.The demonstration was carried out using production DTN-X platforms and deployed on the G테NT backbone, using a long distance link from Amsterdam, Holland to Frankfurt, Germany, a distance of 671km, including 10 fiber spans. First the 2 Tb/s of line side capacity was activated and then the 100 GbE service was deployed as part of the test to show that the capacity was immediately available for service. We believe that rapid delivery of capacity and service is a key advantage of Infinera solutions and allows carriers to respond to customers' rapidly changing demands."When Infinera was involved in the procurement process for the G테NT backbone they made a number of claims about their ability to turn up long haul capacity very rapidly, and we decided to put those claims to the test," said Michael Enrico, CTO of DANTE. "The fact is that critical science experiments across Europe are generating immense quantities of data that are often difficult to fit into a forecasting process, so this ability to turn up, or redirect long haul capacity in a matter of minutes will help us transform the service we offer to our National Research and Education Network partners."The trial involved lighting up four 500Gb/s super-channels, and then provisioning a 100GbE service across the link. The trial was timed on a stopwatch, and a time-lapse video of the provisioning process is available here."This was a genuine test of our rapid provisioning capability, using real production equipment and software," said Geoff Bennett, Director of Solutions and Technology at Infinera. "If we had used conventional 100G transponders we would need a total of 40 of them -- 20 at each end. But the Infinera 500G solution allows an engineer to provision up to five times as much capacity in a single operational cycle.Enabling our customers to use time as a weapon is마 key value of coherent super-channels."The Amsterdam-Frankfurt link was selected because this route is one of the busiest in Europe. This link is now in service with the DTN-X and carrying production traffic for the European NREN community.About Infinera Infinera specializes in Digital Optical Networking systems that are designed to continually improve the economics of optical networking by combining the speed of optics with the simplicity of digital. Infinera is unique in its use of breakthrough semiconductor technology: Large Scale Photonic Integrated Circuit (PIC). Infinera's platforms leverage PIC technology to provide customers with a service-ready architecture that enables faster time-to-revenue and greater profitability through network efficiency and the ability to rapidly deliver differentiated services without reengineering their optical infrastructure. For more information, please visit http://www.infinera.com/.About G테NT G테NT is the pan-European research and education network that interconnects Europe's National Research and Education Networks (NRENs). Together we connect over 50 million users at 10,000 institutions across Europe, supporting research in areas such as energy, the environment, space and medicine.Operating at speeds of up to 500Gbps and reaching over 100 national networks worldwide, G테NT remains the largest and most advanced research and education network in the world. Co-funded by the European Commission under the EU's 7th Research and Development Framework Programme, G테NT is a flagship e-Infrastructure key to achieving the European Research Area -- a seamless and open European space for online research -- and assuring world-leading connectivity between Europe and the rest of the world in support of global research collaborations.The network and associated services comprise the G테NT (GN3plus) project, a collaborative effort comprising 41 project partners: 38 European NRENs, DANTE, TERENA and NORDUnet (representing the 5 Nordic countries). G테NT is operated by DANTE on behalf of Europe's NRENs. For more information, visit www.geant.netAbout DANTE DANTE (Delivery of Advanced Network Technology to Europe) is a non-profit organisation established in 1993 that plans, builds and operates large scale, advanced networks for research and education. On behalf of Europe's National Research and Education Networks (NRENs), DANTE has built and operates G테NT, a flagship e-Infrastructure key to achieving the European Research Area.Working in cooperation with the European Commission and in close partnership with Europe's NRENs and international networking partners, DANTE remains fundamental to the success of global research collaboration.DANTE currently manages projects focused on the Mediterranean, Asia-Pacific, Sub-Saharan Africa and Central Asia regions through the EUMEDCONNECT, TEIN, ORIENTplus, AfricaConnect and CAREN projects respectively. For more information, visit www.dante.netThis press release contains forward-looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on our current expectations.ㅁctual results may vary materially from these expectations as a result of various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, aggressive business tactics by our competitors, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, our reliance on single-source suppliers, and our ability to respond to rapid technological changes. Further information about these risks and uncertainties, and other risks and uncertainties that affect our business, is contained in the risk factors section and other sections of our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2013, as well subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available on our website at www.infinera.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Infinera assumes no obligation to, and does not currently intend to, update any such forward-looking statements.