VANCOUVER, BC--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) -  Dynamsoft Corp., a developer of scanner programming libraries and JavaScript webcam plug-ins, has upgraded the barcode reader add-in for its latest Dynamic .NET TWAIN software development kit (SDK), version 4.3, to improve its overall performance. Barcode reader performance (1D or 2D) is improved from 50 to 300 percent compared to previous versions. Barcode recognition accuracy has also been improved.The larger the barcode image, the more pronounced the improved performance of the barcode reader. Also, the SDK now allows developers to use zone optical character recognition (OCR) on scanned / captured documents. The Dynamic .NET TWAIN SDK enables a simpler development path for applications to capture images from most imaging devices for sale or in use. The SDK has built-in webcam support. It also supports TWAIN, WIA and UVC application programming interfaces (API). These features and more practically eliminate worries related to ensuring device compatibility. Extension features include image editing and uploading capabilities to allow post-capture processing in WinForm, WPF or other .NET applications."Barcodes continue to grow in popularity and as this happens it becomes important that developers be able to leverage their advantages," said Amy Gu, Vice President of Dynamsoft. "Accurate barcode recognition is critical, regardless of the size of the barcode. Dynamic .NET TWAIN's latest barcode add-in address these performance needs."Dynamic .NET TWAIN is based on Microsoft's .NET framework and the TWAIN library is optimized for use in C# and Visual Basic .NET. Customizable scanning configurations include, ADF; duplex; resolution; pixel type, and more. Multiple support channels are provided for the SDK, including email, live chat, forum and phone.Pricing and Availability Dynamsoft's Dynamic .NET TWAIN SDK is available starting June 4, 2013. It is licensed for $799 per developer and allows royalty-free distribution. The purchase of a yearly subscription includes Premier Support, offering advantages such as one-to-one product training, code reviews up to three times annually and more. The SDK can be purchased online at https://www.dynamsoft.com/Secure/.Net-TWAIN-Scanner-BuyIt.aspx. Full details on Premier Support are available at https://www.dynamsoft.com/Products/Yearly-Subscription-Benefits.aspx#TWAIN-Benefits.About Dynamsoft Corp. Founded in 2003, Dynamsoft Corp. provides enterprise-class source control / version control software. Its SourceAnywhere™ software enables efficient file management of source code versions. This ensures greater collaboration and integrity of source code. It is ideal for web, software and application development throughout the lifecycle of development and support. Dynamsoft also provides TWAIN™ software development kits (SDK) and other image capture SDKs. Dynamsoft is an associate member of the TWAIN Working Group that develops TWAIN standards. Thousands of customers use Dynamsoft's source control and TWAIN SDK solutions. Customers include: 3M®; Apple®; EMC®; Fujitsu®; GE®; H&R Block®; HP®; IBM®, Intel®; InfoSys®; Lockheed Martin®; Olympus®; Philips®; PricewaterhouseCoopers®; Samsung®; Siemens®; Symantec®; Unisys®; Verizon®; and more. More information is available at http://www.dynamsoft.com.Note: Whether noted or not, references to certain words may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.