HIALEAH, FL--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Tom Castellanos, president and CEO of East Coast Metals, Inc., has worked for years to build his organization through targeted, effective business leadership. As such, he has developed a strong understanding of the kind of business leadership that can successfully grow an enterprise. Here, Castellanos responds to an article published by Forbes that highlights the importance of leaders following through with the corporate values and procedures that they have put into place.According to the article, many individuals have doubts regarding the sincerity of leaders when it comes to doing what they say they will. The article explains: "Leaders may talk about strong corporate values, but some were quick to bypass them in the interest of the bottom line. No doubt this skepticism is a response to the wave of corporate scandals in 2012 that has increased suspicions about corporate leaders. Again, this thinking isn't limited to these MBA students [involved in a survey] -- a global survey by consulting firm Edelman Berland, found that less than 1 in 5 people believe business leaders will actually tell the truth when confronted with a difficult issue."This attitude toward business leadership is troubling to Tom Castellanos, who has built his company on a foundation of integrity and transparency. He believes that establishing corporate values and then living up to them is an imperative aspect of successful leadership."What good is a business leader of they don't have the trust of their employees?" asks Castellanos. "How can clients trust a company if its own employees are not certain in the capabilities and integrity of their leader? To me, strong business leadership is more than just making sure that things run smoothly; leaders are examples to the professionals who staff their organizations. As such, it is crucial that they act according to the values that they have set so that their employees will see how much stock is put into these ideas. But the importance of acting with integrity goes beyond that. Leaders are tasked with building a brand that is trusted by clients and employees. Without a certain level of trust, neither are going to buy into the company's ideas or support it to the extent necessary for the organization to truly flourish."Castellanos encourages all business leaders to evaluate the example that they provide to their professionals and make any changes that may be required to improve the level of trust that is present within the company. Establishing corporate goals and sharing them with employees -- and making a concerted effort to act upon these values -- is a wonderful way for business leaders to create a corporate culture that is steeped in trust regarding executive decisions. Tom Castellanos urges business leaders to take their roles seriously and earn the trust of their clients and team members.ABOUT:Tom Castellanos, who is the president and CEO of East Coast Metals, Inc., is a business leader located in Hialeah, Florida. In spearheading the efforts of his company to innovate the industry and meet the needs of its clientele, Castellanos has revolutionized the field of roofing and continues to grow his business via an unparalleled degree of customer support. Over the course of his career, Castellanos has finely tuned his ability to offer quality improvement, operational planning, strategic partnerships, strategy development, market analysis, and the reengineering of manufacturing operations.