WALL, NJ--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) -
BIO-key International, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BKYI ), a leader in fingerprint biometric identification technologies, mobile credentialing and identity verification solutions, today reported that IBM granted validation of BIO-key's finger biometric authentication solutions, for IBM® Security Access Manager (ISAM) for Web. ISAM for Web provides an access control management solution to centralize network and application security policy for e-business applications. The full and complete integration of BIO-key solutions within ISAM for Web was completed earlier this month and is now available for customer implementation.IBM customers seeking solutions for two-factor authentication for e-business applications now have a validated solution from BIO-key. BIO-key's ID Director for ISAM for Web delivers two-factor and risk based authentication for ISAM for Web utilizing our flexible, fast, and extremely accurate fingerprint authentication technology.ISAM for Web solutions interact with a variety of client operating systems and applications. BIO-key's interoperable and scalable fingerprint biometric technology helps ISAM for Web customers reduce the risk of fraud along with its associated costs and consequences, install lean process improvement, increase interface time, and achieve two-factor authentication in a secure and complaint manner. The company's technology operates on any type of device including PCs, workstations, laptops, tablets, and smartphones. Additionally, BIO-key's software is compatible with most of the major platforms and is integrated with more than forty fingerprint readers. BIO-key's objective is to future proof the authentication process, knowing that as new devices are introduced to the market, BIO-key will continue to support them."We are enthused to receive our certification for the latest IBM security platform solution for Web applications. Any IBM customer utilizing ISAM can now add a biometric component for convenient multi-factor authentication to any supported application," stated Mike DePasquale, BIO-key CEO. Considering the size of IBM's installed base of accounts this can represent a significant opportunity for BIO-key."About BIO-key BIO-key International, Inc., headquartered in Wall, New Jersey, develops and delivers advanced identification solutions to commercial and government enterprises, integrators, and custom application developers. BIO-key's award winning, high performance, scalable, cost-effective and easy-to-deploy biometric finger identification technology accurately identifies and authenticates users of wireless and enterprise applications. Our solutions are used in local embedded OEM products as well as some of the world's largest identification deployments to improve security, guarantee identity, and help reduce identity theft. BIO-key's technology is offered directly or by market leading partners around the world. (http://www.bio-key.com)BIO-key Safe Harbor Statement Certain statements contained in this press release may be construed as "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). The words "estimate," "project," "intends," "expects," "anticipates," "believes" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are made based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management pursuant to the "safe-harbor" provisions of the Act. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected on the basis of these statements. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, our history of losses and limited revenue, our ability to develop new products and evolve existing ones, the impact on our business of the recent financial crisis in the global capital markets and negative global economic trends, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. For a more complete description of these and other risk factors that may affect the future performance of BIO-key International, Inc., see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. The Company undertakes no obligation to disclose any revision to these forward-looking statements. © Copyright 2013 by BIO-key International, Inc.