AUSTIN, TX--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - The worldwide population, which surpassed seven billion people in 2012, is expected to continue its steady growth over the next five years. Globally, smartphone sales will also increase at a steady pace. As smartphones become more affordable worldwide, more and more consumers are choosing smartphones as either their first mobile device or as a replacement to their basic feature or texting phone. By 2017, iGR forecasts that total handset sales will be 2.7 billion units, of which 2 billion will be smartphones."Many factors are driving the global increase in smartphone sales," said Iain Gillott, president and founder of iGR, a market research consultancy focused on the wireless and mobile industry. "Consumers are increasingly demanding mobile devices that support their portable, data-driven lifestyle, and the decrease in price of smartphones is making them more accessible in developing markets."iGR's new market research report, Global Handset and Smartphone Forecast, 2012-2017, forecasts the expected worldwide sales of handsets for 2012-2017. Sales are forecasted by type of device, both non-smartphones and smartphones, and mobile operating systems. The sales numbers are forecasted globally, as well as for each of the following six regions: North America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Asia-Pacific, and Japan. This market study also overviews the smartphone OEMs, as well as the trends driving this growing market.The following key questions are addressed in the new research study:Which OEMs currently provide smartphones to this market? What are the current trends in smartphone design and consumer usage? What are the anticipated global handset and smartphone sales for 2012 to 2017? What are the anticipated handset and smartphone sales for North America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Asia-Pacific, and Japan for 2012 to 2017? What are the anticipated sales for each smartphone operating system both globally and for each region of the world in 2012-2017?The information in this report will be valuable for:Mobile operators Mobile device OEMs Mobile content providers and distributors Financial analysts and investors.The new report can be purchased and downloaded directly from iGR's website at www.iGR-inc.com. Alternatively, contact Iain Gillott at (512) 263-5682 or at Iain@iGR-inc.com for additional details.About iGR iGR is a market strategy consultancy focused on the wireless and mobile communications industry. Founded by Iain Gillott, one of the wireless industry's leading analysts, in late 2000 as iGillottResearch, iGR is now entering its thirteenth year of operation. iGR continuously researches emerging and existent technologies, technology industries, and consumer markets. We use our detailed research to offer a range of services to help companies improve their position in the marketplace, clearly define their future direction, and ultimately improve their bottom line.iGR researches a range of wireless and mobile products and technologies, including: smartphones; tablets; mobile applications; bandwidth demand and use; small cell architectures; DAS; LTE; WiMAX; VoLTE; IMS; NFC; GSM/GPRS/UMTS/HSPA; CDMA 1x/EV-DO; iDEN; SIP; macro-, pico- and femtocells; mobile backhaul; WiFi and WiFi offload; and SIM and UICC.A more complete profile of the company can be found at www.igr-inc.com.