WILMINGTON, MA--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Implant Sciences Corporation (
OTCQB :
IMSC ), a high technology supplier of systems and sensors for homeland security and defense markets, today announced that it will exhibit its TSA-approved Quantum Sniffer™ QS-B220 desktop explosives and drugs trace detector and its Quantum Sniffer QS-H150 handheld explosives trace detector at the China Airport Show 2013: Shanghai International Airport Facilities Construction and Operation Exhibition, in booth B52. The expo will take place on June 10th through 12th, 2013 at the Shanghai World Expo exhibition and convention center.Exhibition attendees will include representatives from the Chinese Civil Aviation Authority, airport operators, airline operators, investors, and developers and suppliers of products and services for airports."China has been a very strong market for us, generating approximately $20 million in revenues for our Company to date. Quantum Sniffers were a key part of the multi-layered security environment during the 2008 Beijing Olympics, and are currently deployed across China in applications including aviation security, public transportation security, police forces, as well as building security," stated Implant Sciences' Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Dr. Darryl Jones. "Participation in this airport expo we will help us gain greater exposure to both current and prospective customers in China."According to reports from the China Airport Show 2013, Chinese civil aviation is developing rapidly. Since 2005, the reports note that total Chinese civil aviation transportation turnover, excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, is the second largest in the world.About the Quantum Sniffer™ QS-B220 Desktop Explosives and Drugs Trace Detector The Quantum Sniffer QS-B220 uses Ion Mobility Spectrometry (IMS) to rapidly detect and identify trace amounts of a wide variety of military, commercial, and homemade explosives. With significantly lower maintenance requirements than competing systems, the QS-B220 can be deployed for a much lower total cost of ownership than other approved products. Featuring a radioactive material-free design, push-button maintenance and diagnostics, and a patented inCal™ internal automatic calibration system, the QS-B220 brings new levels of performance and convenience to desktop trace detection users with unsurpassed ease of use.About the Quantum Sniffer™ QS-H150 Handheld Explosives Trace DetectorThe Quantum Sniffer QS-H150 utilizes Ion Mobility Spectrometry (IMS) technology, providing fast, accurate detection of trace amounts of a wide variety of military, commercial, and homemade explosives. Built with no radioactive materials and featuring a low-maintenance, self-calibrating, and self-clearing design, the QS-H150 provides very high levels of operational availability. The QS-H150 has been proven to perform well in a wide variety of temperatures and challenging environments, from humid jungles to dry, sand swept deserts.About Implant SciencesImplant Sciences is the leader in next generation Explosives Trace Detection (ETD) technology. In January 2013, the Company became only the third ETD manufacturer, and the sole American-owned company, to receive product approval from the US Transportation Security Administration. Implant Sciences develops, manufactures and sells sophisticated sensors and systems for Security, Safety, and Defense (SS&D) markets. The Company has developed proprietary technologies used in its commercial explosives and narcotics trace detection systems, which ship to a growing number of locations domestically and internationally. Implant Sciences' QS-H150 portable explosives trace detector has received Qualified Anti-Terrorism Technology Designation and, in addition to receiving TSA approval for air cargo screening, the Company's QS-B220 has also received a Developmental Testing & Evaluation (DT&E) Designation by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security under the Support Anti-terrorism by Fostering Effective Technology Act of 2002 (the SAFETY Act). For further details on the Company and its products, please visit the Company's website at www.implantsciences.com.Safe Harbor StatementThis press release may contain certain "forward-looking statements," as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks that our explosives detection products and technologies (including any new products we may develop) may not be accepted by the Transportation Security Administration or by other U.S. or foreign government and law enforcement agencies or commercial consumers of security products; economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales; our business is subject to intense competition and rapid technological change; the risks that our markets are subject to technological change and that our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products; and other risks and uncertainties described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions which could differ materially from the forward-looking statements.