NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Infinity Augmented Reality, Inc. ("Infinity Augmented Reality" or "Infinity AR") (
OTCQB :
ALSO ), the first augmented reality software platform to connect universally with digital eyewear, smartphones and tablets, announced today that Enon Landenberg has been appointed Chief Executive Officer, effective on May 30, 2013.Mr. Landenberg replaces Avrohom Oratz in this position who will continue to consult for additional six months to ensure a smooth transition. Mr. Landenberg brings more than 14 years of relevant industry experience to his new role having previously served as Chief Interaction Officer of the Israeli division of Publicis Inc, and was a co-founder and managing partner of E-Dologic, Israel's first interactive agency."As Infinity AR's new CEO, Enon will bring a passion for building businesses that seamlessly merge the worlds of media, marketing and technology," said Mr. Oratz. "We are confident that his extensive knowledge, strong execution skills and leadership will enable Infinity AR to continue to innovate and accelerate its growth." Mr. Oratz added that he looks forward to working closely with Mr. Landenberg during the transition."Infinity AR is at the forefront of developing proprietary augmented reality software and offers the only platform of its kind to provide a full AR," said Landenberg. "I am excited to be part of Infinity AR and once again working with a company that is a pioneer in its field. I look forward to working with the talented team as we utilize Infinity AR's unique platform and recognition technology to develop innovative commercial applications."Mr. Landenberg has experience in founding and leading companies to make them world leaders within their industries. He is the co-founder and managing partner of E-Dologic, Israel's first interactive agency, which was founded in 1999. The firm launched revolutionary campaigns for leading companies such as Coca-Cola, Mazda, Ford, JDate, Nestle and other Fortune 500 companies. In 2001 E-Dologic was acquired by the iconic advertising agency Publicis Inc, where Mr. Landenberg served as Chief Interaction Officer of the Israeli division until this past January. Along with building one of the largest digital advertising agencies, Mr. Landenberg is a well-known expert in the interactive media field, a highly sought-after lecturer at technology conventions and a featured TEDx conference keynote speaker.Mr. Landenberg earned an M.B.A. in Business Management from the Ruppin Academic Center and currently serves on the school's Board of Governors. Recently, Mr. Landenberg was named Chief Commercial Marketing Officer for the SpaceIL project, where he led an effort to raise $30 million to finance a project to land an Israeli spacecraft on the moon.Infinity AR also announced that it has appointed two new Directors to the Company's Board of Directors -- Adi Sheleg, Chief Executive Officer of Genesis Angels fund, and Yuval Rabin, the Chairman of Beyond Verbal Communication Ltd. and Managing Partner and Founder of Oris Investments Ltd., an investment company with a focus on clean technology.With the additions of Mr. Sheleg and Mr. Rabin, the Company's board of directors now consists of 5 members, of which 4 are independent members.Commenting on their appointment, Mr. Oratz said, "We are very pleased to add the talent and industry knowledge of these two respected executives to our Board. We are looking forward to their contributions in both finance and technology as we continue to drive for long-term shareholder value and seek opportunities to continue to grow our business."Mr. Sheleg is Chief Executive Officer of Genesis Angels fund, a new venture capital firm. His partners include former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, Kazakh industrialist Kenges Rakishev and leading tech entrepreneur Moshe Hogeg, the founder of Mobli and a member of Infinity AR's Board of Directors. The focus of the new venture capital firm will be early stage investments in augmented reality, artificial intelligence and robotic innovations. Mr. Sheleg is well respected in the trading and investing worlds as he worked as an analyst, portfolio manager and trader from 1997-2012 for various arbitrage trading desks, including Lehman Brothers, ISP Group, Gilon Investments Ltd. and Ilanot Betucha. Mr. Sheleg will serve as a director and advise Infinity Augmented Reality, drawing on his extensive experience and successful track record.Story continuesMr. Rabin, the son former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, is the Chairman of Beyond Verbal Communication Ltd. and Managing Partner and Founder of Oris Investments Ltd., an investment company with a focus on clean technology. Previously, he was Managing Partner at Rabin, Sheves, Lipkin-Shahak and Birger Partners, Inc., where he led business development for Israeli technologies companies in the evolving U.S. homeland security market, and before that he was Chief Technology Officer and Chief Operating Officer at BeyondGuide Inc. From 1985 to 2000, he worked at several technology companies including Esim Inc., Sapiens International and Digital Equipment Corp. - DEC. He completed a five-year program in computer sciences at the IDF computer center. In addition, he is Chairman of The Peace Generation, where he participated in developing several social programs such as day-care centers, after school care and paramilitary training courses that serve underprivileged populations. He is also a co-founder of the Israeli Peace Initiative Program.About Augmented RealityAugmented reality is a medium in which real sensory inputs are enhanced, or augmented, with relevant digital information from the Internet. Using specially equipped eyewear, virtual images, video, and sound are superimposed for the user over what is actually seen and heard, heightening the real-life experience with additional information that is pertinent, informative, practical and entertaining. The individual user may also be fully immersed in a virtual world, temporarily blocking out real surroundings. With augmented reality, sensory inputs are no longer limited to what is within eyeshot or earshot, but may incorporate, in real-time, all that the network has to offer.Augmented reality requires an interface, such as digitally-enhanced eyewear, that can instantaneously overlay virtual images and video on top of what is actually experienced. Companies like Google and Lumus are in the process of developing augmented reality glasses that will change the way users see and interact with the world. Infinity AR will utilize its augmented reality applications through these glasses and through other mobile devices including smart phones. As the individual changes his or her visual perspective the sights that are overlaid change accordingly. The eyewear incorporates audio speakers that add virtual sounds to the experience, as well as microphones that capture and interpret the user's spoken commands through speech recognition technology in order to summon desired information and actions. Further information on the Company is available at its website: www.infinityar.com.Safe Harbor Forward-Looking Statements Some statements in this release may be "forward-looking statements" for the purposes of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "plan," "potential," "continue" or similar expressions. Such forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties, and there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors, risks and uncertainties are discussed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made by us in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those expected or projected. We undertake no obligation to update these forward looking statements.