NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - Presidio, the nation's leading provider of Professional and Managed Services for advanced IT solutions, announced today that Dave Hart has been named the company's new Chief Operating Officer.Mr. Hart will be responsible for driving the company's day-to-day operating activities and report directly to the company CEO, Bob Cagnazzi. Mr. Hart, who is currently the Chief Technology Officer, will continue to focus on quarterly and annual financial goals for non-geographic business units such as Presidio Managed Services, Presidio Technology Capital and Presidio System Engineering.Bob Cagnazzi, CEO of Presidio, commented, "Presidio is continuing to evolve our business model to meet the growing needs of our organization and our clients. Appointing Dave Hart into this critical role will create more focus in certain areas of our business that will benefit our operations.""I've had the honor and thrill of participating in the substantial success Presidio has had over the last eight years," said Mr. Hart. "These are exciting times for our industry. Presidio is at the forefront of some of the greatest innovations in the history of IT. Our role as valued and trusted advisors to our clients is more important than ever. Presidio's best days are ahead of us."Hart has held numerous executive positions for Presidio in the last eight years.ABOUT PRESIDIO:Presidio is the leading provider of professional and managed services for advanced IT solutions. By taking the time to deeply understand how our clients define success, we architect enduring technology solutions that address their business needs. Our approach blends the credibility to deliver practical results today, with the creativity to drive the business visions of tomorrow. More than 2,200 Presidio IT professionals, 1,500 of which are engineers with over 2000 industry leading certifications, are based in 50+ offices across the US. We serve our clients through a unique, local delivery model while capitalizing on our scale as a multi-billion dollar industry leader. We are passionate about driving results for our clients and delivering the highest quality of service in the industry. For more information visit: www.Presidio.com.