SAN JOSE, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) -  WHO: Breker Verification Systems (www.brekersystems.com), The System-on-Chip (SoC) Verification CompanyWHAT: Will celebrate its 10th anniversary at the 50th Design Automation Conference (DAC) in Booth #2015 with the theme: "Stitch and Ship will Sink Your Chip." As proof, it will demonstrate TrekSoC™, software that automatically generates self-verifying and synchronized C test cases to run on an SoC's multiple heterogeneous embedded processors for faster and more thorough verificationWHEN: Monday, June 3, through Wednesday, June 5, from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m. dailyWHERE: The Austin Convention Center in Austin, Texas, where Breker was founded in 2003.The booth will feature a variety of presentations from Breker and its partners as well as special musical entertainment from Rudy Roberson. He has an extensive background in acting, singing, and storytelling, including two years touring as a cast member of The Lion King and appearances on multiple original-cast recordings.Breker will host a dinner cruise around Austin's Lady Bird Lake June 4 for attendees whose names are drawn at the end of each booth presentation Monday and Tuesday. The cruise will feature the exodus of the bats living under the Congress Street Bridge as they head out for their nightly feeding.Engineers from IBM will present "Graph-Based Verification Patterns," a look at how they apply Breker's TrekSoC to a real-world verification project, during the Designer Track June 4 from 12:30 p.m. until 1:30 p.m.Adnan Hamid, Breker's chief executive officer, will participate in a DAC technical panel titled, "Disruptive Verification Technologies: Can They Really Make a Difference?," June 5 from 9 a.m. until 10:30 a.m. Breker's Vice President of Marketing Tom Anderson organized "Organizational and Management Solutions to the Verification Crisis," a DAC pavilion panel to be June 4 from 1:30 p.m. until 2:30 p.m. More information can be found on the DAC website at: www.dac.com.Details about TrekSoC and Breker Verification Systems can be found at: www.brekersystems.com. Requests for private suite meetings and demonstrations through the Breker website at: http://tiny.cc/frbqww.About Breker Verification Systems Electronic Design Automation (EDA) software company Breker Verification Systems provides innovative solutions to solve the challenge of complex system-on-chip (SoC) functional verification and eliminate the pervasive "Stitch and Ship" SoC design approach. Its TrekSoC™ software and unique SoC scenario-modeling™ approach are used in production at leading semiconductor companies in the U.S., Europe and India. More information about Breker can be found at www.brekersystems.com or at http://tiny.cc/d5ifvw. Daily updates on company activities are available at http://tiny.cc/k6ifvw and additional information can be found at http://tiny.cc/56ifvw. Its blog, "The Breker Trekker," is hosted on EDACafe, available at http://tiny.cc/4cjfvw. Founded in 2003, it is privately held and funded. Breker Verification Systems corporate headquarters is located at 1879 Lundy Ave., Suite 126, San Jose, Calif. 95131 Telephone: (650) 336-8872. Email: info@brekersystems.com. Website: www.brekersystems.com.TrekSoC, TrekBox and SoC Scenario Modeling are registered trademarks of Breker Verification Systems. Breker Verification Systems acknowledges trademarks or registered trademarks of other organizations for their respective products.