CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) -
Shell Canada is teaming-up with Canadian automotive enthusiast judges in a new contest to find the person that best embodies what being the ultimate automotive enthusiast means. Whether it is a person who spends more time tuning and pampering their vehicle than driving it, touring the country in search of their dream ride, just cruising to show it off, or simply someone who spends much of their leisure time paying homage to all things automotive, the Shell V-Power® Ultimate Enthusiast Contest aims to find the best of the best.From May 31 to July 25, enthusiasts across Canada are invited to share why they are the Ultimate Enthusiast at shell.ca/ultimateenthusiast. One Grand Prize winner and a guest will receive the Ultimate Enthusiast week of a lifetime in Italy where they'll have the chance to explore the country's remarkable sites and rich automotive history, including an exclusive Ferrari experience in the Prancing Horse's home town of Maranello."At Shell, we understand and appreciate the genuine enthusiasm Canadians have for their vehicles. We've worked with Scuderia Ferrari for 60 years on the race track and have put our learnings into the fuels for your tank. By developing fuels such as Shell V-Power, we are dedicated to providing a high quality premium fuel that meets the needs of modern engines - no other premium gasoline keeps critical engine parts cleaner than Shell V-Power,," says Sherri Nicholson, retail fuels marketing manager at Shell Canada Products. "The Ultimate Enthusiast Contest is a tribute to the enthusiasts who share that same passion and commitment for their own rides."To kick off the contest, a consumer event will take place on June 3 during Grand Prix week in Montreal at the Shell station located at 1255 Montée Masson in Terrebonne. From 1-7pm, a Scuderia Ferrari F10 Formula One Show Car will be on display for consumers to view and have their pictures taken with, the Shell V-Power pit crew will be on hand to offer free window washing and fuel pumping, and with a minimum fuel purchase of $20, customers will also receive a giveaway of up to $75 of Shell V-Power Premium Gasolines, while quantities last.In order to identify the nation's most die-hard automotive enthusiast as part of this contest, Shell has assembled a panel of recognized automotive insiders and experts to judge the entries including Graeme Fletcher, licensed mechanic and Canadian automotive journalist; Jil McInstosh, freelance auto writer; Frédéric Plante, co-host of 5 à 7 on RDS, Joe Duarte, senior Autonet writer, Sun Media; Justin Pritchard, automotive journalist and co-chair, Canadian Car of the Year Awards; and Gary Grant, automotive blogger."Over the span of my experience working in the automotive field, first as a mechanic and now as a freelance automotive journalist, I have had the privilege of meeting and working with some of the most knowledgeable, competitive and avid auto enthusiasts in the world," said Graeme Fletcher. "I look forward to helping find that one Canadian who is just as passionate, through the Shell V-Power Ultimate Enthusiast Contest."A new Leger survey of Canadian owners of vehicles that require premium fuel shows that 96% agree that premium fuel is necessary to help optimize engine performance. So, to pamper their beloved vehicles, the grand prize winner will also receive a year's worth of Shell V-Power Premium Gasoline. Should the Grand Prize winner be unable to redeem the Grand Prize trip to Italy, they will be offered $10,000 of Shell V-Power Premium Gasoline in addition to the prize of a year's worth of gasoline. The Ultimate Enthusiast deserves the ultimate experience and the ultimate gasoline. Shell V-Power Premium Gasoline is designed to deliver optimum performance through advanced technology.For more information on the Shell V-Power Ultimate Enthusiast Contest and official rules, please visit shell.ca/ultimateenthusiast. For more information on the benefits of Shell V-Power Premium Gasoline, visit shell.ca/vpower or find us on Facebook at facebook.com/shell.About Shell Canada ProductsShell has been operating in Canada since 1911 and employs approximately 8,000 people across the country. A leading manufacturer, distributor and marketer of refined petroleum products, Shell produces natural gas, natural gas liquids and bitumen, and is Canada's largest producer of sulphur. Shell is one of Canada's oil sands developers and operates the Athabasca Oil Sands Project on behalf of the joint venture partners.