CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) -
Vast Exploration Inc. (TSX VENTURE:VST) reports the appointment of Mr. Paul Bozoki as the Chief Financial Officer of the company.Mr. Bozoki is a Chartered Accountant, holds an MBA and has over 15 years of accounting, tax and corporate finance experience. Since October 2010, Mr. Bozoki has served as Chief Financial Officer of several junior resource companies listed on both the TSX and the TSX-V. Mr. Bozoki began his career at Ernst & Young LLP where he spent six years auditing clients predominately in the mining industry.The appointment of Mr. Bozoki follows the resignation of Mr. Sam Yik as Chief Financial Officer of Vast. The management and board of Vast would like to thank Mr. Yik for his service and the contributions he has made to the company and wish him well in the future.This press release contains "forward-looking information" within the meaning of applicable Canadian securities legislation. Forward-looking information includes, but is not limited to, statements with respect to the appointment and resignation of officers and directors of the company. Generally, forward looking information can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "plans", "expects" or "does not expect", "is expected", "budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "forecasts", "intends", "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results "may", "could", "would", "might" or "will be taken", "occur" or "be achieved". Forward-looking information is subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking information, including but not limited to: general business, economic, competitive, geopolitical and social uncertainties; the actual results of exploration activities; regulatory risks; risks inherent in foreign operations; and other risks of the oil and gas industry. Although the Company has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking information, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. There can be no assurance that such information will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking information. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking information, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.