COLOGNE, GERMANY--(Marketwired - Jun 3, 2013) - ANGA COM 2013 -- Verimatrix, the specialist in securing and enhancing revenue for multi-network, multi-screen digital TV services around the globe, today announced that Slovak Telekom, a subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom and the largest Slovak multimedia operator, has chosen Verimatrix Video Content Authority System (VCAS™) for Internet TV to protect its new Magio GO over-the-top (OTT) multi-screen services. Slovak Telekom offers the widest content choice in the Slovakian market, and has more than 180,000 TV subscribers.Slovak Telekom's Magio GO service features a modular, scalable and flexible OTT delivery platform including 22 live TV channels; premium service Magio Go Plus also provides enhanced services like nPVR, timeshift, TV archive and TV bookmarks. It is offered as an additional service to Slovak Telekom's Magio TV products, which is realised utilising the advanced HTTP Live Streaming (HLS) protocol. Magio GO is available on a variety of screens (TV, web, mobile) and is based on Slovak Telekom's unique MCore converged multi-screen application framework, which delivers converged TV applications and services to IPTV, hybrid satellite and OTT customers).VCAS for Internet TV, powered by the multi-network VCAS platform, provides comprehensive multi-screen security for the exciting new service offering. VCAS for Internet TV enhances the basic HLS security model with capabilities that support subscription and transaction based pay-TV services otherwise only found in managed IPTV and DVB pay-TV systems. In particular, VCAS ensures that decryption keys are stored securely and distributed only to authenticated devices. The software-based solution is built on proven cryptographic and secure electronic transaction concepts used in e-commerce applications, providing the same high level of digital TV security that Verimatrix is recognized for in more than 600 pay-TV operator deployments."In developing our new Magio GO solution, we leveraged the most advanced technologies, such as VCAS for Internet TV, to optimize the delivery and security of new multimedia and content services over unmanaged OTT networks," said Branimir Maric, chief technology and information officer, Slovak Telekom. "Such an approach offers Slovak Telekom a distinct competitive advantage by enabling us to offer our subscribers personalized, interactive, targeted apps and content, while also helping us further enhance our own revenue security.""OTT service delivery will become increasingly pervasive in the coming years," said Steve Oetegenn, chief sales and marketing officer, Verimatrix. "Our VCAS solutions enable Slovak Telekom to deliver the most competitive platform today, and will evolve with innovative multimedia services that provide subscribers with the content and delivery choices that they desire."Verimatrix will showcase various multi-network solutions at its booth (Hall 10.1, Booth M10) during ANGA COM to illustrate the many advantages and capabilities of its VCAS™ architecture. Verimatrix will also host the latest event in its popular Multi-network Solutions in the Real World Forum series during ANGA COM 2013 at the Dorint an der Messe Hotel (across the street from the Convention Center) on 5 June at 8:00. To register, please visit: www.verimatrix.com/anga2013About Verimatrix Verimatrix specializes in securing and enhancing revenue for multi-network, multi-screen digital TV services around the globe. The award-winning and independently audited Verimatrix Video Content Authority System (VCAS™) and ViewRight® solutions enable cable, satellite, terrestrial, IPTV and OTT operators to cost-effectively extend their networks and enable new business models. As the established leader in cardless security solutions, the company has leveraged its innovative 3-Dimensional Security approach to provide harmonized rights for premium content delivery to a range of devices over new hybrid network combinations.Maintaining close relationships with major studios, broadcasters, standards organizations and its unmatched partner ecosystem enables Verimatrix to provide a unique perspective on video business issues beyond content security as operators introduce new services to take advantage of the proliferation of connected devices. Verimatrix is an ISO 9001:2008 certified company. For more information, please visit www.verimatrix.com, our Pay TV Views blog and follow us at @verimatrixinc, Facebook and LinkedIn to join the conversation.