VAL D'OR, QUEBEC--(Marketwired - Nov 28, 2013) -
Stakeholder Gold Corp. (TSX VENTURE:SRC) ("Stakeholder" or the "Company") announces that Mark Fekete has resigned as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company, and Gregory Fekete has resigned as Corporate Secretary and Director of the Company. The Board of Directors wishes to thank these gentlemen for their hard work and professionalism since the inception of Stakeholder.Stakeholder also announces that Chris Berlet BSc. (Mining), CFA has been appointed President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company, and Chris Carmichael has been appointed as Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Secretary and Director of the Company. Mr. Berlet is a graduate of Mining Engineering from Queen's University (1990) and holds a Diploma in Accounting & Finance from the London School of Economics and Political Science (1991). Mr. Berlet is a CFA charter-holder (2004) and has business experience in both finance and mineral industries. Mr. Berlet is also the President and CEO of NWM Mining Corporation. Mr. Carmichael is the president of CRIS Inc., a company that provides a range of financial reporting, corporate secretarial and other services to TSX, TSX Venture Exchange, CNSX and pre-public companies. From 2003 to 2010, Mr. Carmichael was the CFO of GC-Global Capital Corp., a Canadian publicly listed merchant bank. Mr. Carmichael has been on a number of Board of Directors and has been an officer for a number of TSX Venture Exchange companies.Finally, the Board of Directors has approved the settlement of $31,630 of outstanding debts by issuing shares for debt to all creditors of the Corporation as of November 28, 2013 in accordance with the policies and subject to the approval of the TSX Venture Exchange. Specifically the Company will issue 632,600 common shares at a deemed price of $0.05 per share, that price being the "Discounted Market Price" as defined by TSX Venture Exchange Policy 1.1 and as determined by the date of this news release.On Behalf of the Board of DirectorsVaughn MacLellan, DirectorNeither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release. This release may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from targeted results. Such risks and uncertainties include those described in the Company's periodic reports including the annual report or in the filings made by the Company from time to time with securities regulators. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revision of these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they are made or to reflect the occurrence of an unanticipated event.Shares Issued 41,171,641