Infinite Buyer is creating buzz because of their revolutionary consumer-driven model of allowing buyers to make offers to online merchants, which enables anyone to make their own best deals, in essence, making every day like "Black Friday".Denver, USA - November 28th, 2013 /MarketersMedia/ -- Just in time for the holidays, two Douglas County dads, Brian Grega and Anthony Sanchez - who also happen to be former Silicon Valley entrepreneurs - are launching a new shopping website today where the motto is "EVERY DAY IS BLACK FRIDAY." The e-commerce site, Infinite Buyer, allows shoppers to make `offers` to sellers for a wide range of merchandise. So far, customers have bought new bicycles, cameras, dresses, jewelry, etc. for a fraction of the retail price."It`s not something you`d expect from two dads in their 50`s who hate to shop," says Brian Grega, CEO and Co-Founder, "but think about it - it`s a great model. It allows shoppers to create their own personal deal based on how much they value an item."The idea started at Christmas 2011, when Grega was searching for a digital camera for his teenage daughter. The Gregas already knew what they wanted, the price they were willing to pay, and were ready to buy. He and his wife spent more than 20 hours comparison shopping for the best price on eBay, Amazon and Walmart.com, as well as searching at big box stores and shopping malls. "It not only took precious time away from our family," says Grega, "but we only saved a few dollars in the end. It was also very frustrating having salespeople try to convince us to buy stuff we didn`t want."After discussing this shopping experience with his friend Anthony Sanchez, the two men came up with an idea: create a website where shoppers make an offer at the price they are willing to pay, and merchants then compete to fulfill the buyer`s offer. By the following Holiday season, the dads had a beta site developed, and within hours of their launch, hundreds of buyers and sellers had already registered and some had completed transactions.Now, for this Christmas season, Infinite Buyer has launched its brand new website where registrations are exploding. Co-Founder Anthony Sanchez says "consumers love it because it saves time and money and they are making their own great deal every day - no more searching for coupons or waiting for a sale. Sellers love it too because they make more money by getting `ready-to-buy` customers without much effort or cost."Both Grega and Sanchez have spent the majority of their careers growing high tech companies in the heart of Silicon Valley. Today, they are husbands and fathers living in Douglas County Colorado raising families and spending as little time as possible at the mall. Their ultimate goal these days - to help consumers take control of their shopping.Visit Infinite Buyer on FacebookAbout Infinite Buyer Infinite Buyer has re-engineered the way e-commerce works by creating a Consumer-to-Business (C2B) commerce marketplace that dramatically reduces shopping time and costs for consumers, and improves revenue for online merchants. Infinite Buyer is a more powerful way to buy and sell everything because every deal is simple, relevant and personalized. For more information about Infinite Buyer, the ultimate free market, or to register as a buyer or seller, please visit: www.InfiniteBuyer.comA recent interview with the CEO of Infinite Buyer.Visit http://www.InfiniteBuyer.com/ for more information.Contact Info Name: Anthony Sanchez
Organization: Infinite Buyer
Phone: 303-900-2299
Email: press@InfiniteBuyer.com
Address: 10940 S Parker Rd # 222###This announcement is sourced from MarketersMedia [Link].This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients.The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: MarketersMedia via GlobeNewswireHUG#1746542