Holiday Travel for the Frugal FamilyMaria SmithManilla.comDecember 1, 2013, 2:00 PM UTCPixlandPixland Scroll to continue with contentAdScroll to continue with contentAdThis time of year, families all over the country are getting ready to pack to head over the river and through the woods to Grandma’s house. I am currently planning a 600-mile car ride to one Grandma’s house for Thanksgiving and a 3,000 mile/four-hour plane ride to the other Grandma’s house for Christmas. These trips will be fun and memorable, but they could also make a big dent in the family budget if I let them.While my family loves to travel, we have to think about how to do so as inexpensively as possible. Unfortunately this means it has been nearly two years since my whole family was able to fly out to see my sisters and my nieces and nephews, and a year since we made it down to my in-law’s house. But we are going this year! We put a plan in place months ago to afford these trips and everyone (extended family included) is excited for the holidays for many reasons this year. Here are the top three things I learned that all families can do to frugally plan their holiday travel.1. Earn extra money. As a freelance writer, I was able to stretch myself a bit and took on an extra client for the last few months. All the money I earned was put into an account especially for these holiday trips. I loved checking my Manilla.com account to see that nest egg growing. (And I was so sad when it was depleted in one full swoop.) Extra jobs can be a pain, especially when you have kids to manage and a household to run, but every extra dollar may make you a little closer to that family trip. And now that I know I can do it, I’m definitely going to keep that extra job to save up for our 2014 adventure!2. Do the research. Being a planner is a personality trait that comes in quite handy when organizing a family trip, especially with a family of six. I researched the best car, hotel, and airfare deals endlessly. I looked for discounts and promotional codes, priced out packages, sought advice from family and friends, and worked out the best ways to earn rewards from these holiday trips. A little research can really go a long way to save you some serious cash.Story continues3. Be organized. One of my favorite ways to save money on travel is to use the group-buying sites like Groupon. The key for me though is to remember all those great hotel, attraction, and restaurant deals when I need them. Manilla.com makes it easy for me because they manage my bills but also my daily deals and even travel rewards. I always have a kid or two pulling me in separate directions and so having all this information in one place helps me feel less stressed and keeps the information from getting lost. Those “deals” are only deals if I use them!  And don’t forget to plan for ALL the expenses you’ll incur, even often overlooked ones like baggage fees when flying or gas when driving. Being prepared for the total out-of-pocket cost Of a family trip is imperative to making sure you don’t overspend.These tips may be more common sense than anything else, but sometimes it helps to get back to the basics.  I value spending time with my extended family and I miss them all so much that I knew I couldn’t let another year go by without seeing them.  With a little extra effort, planning and organization, we will be having a family-focused, holly jolly holiday season.Maria Smith is an on the go “stay at home” mother of four kids under the age of 7. In her pre-baby life she was a TV producer at The Oprah Winfrey Show.  She loves writing, traveling, and finding fun things and places for moms to do, have and go. Maria has been featured as an expert on ABC World News Tonight, NBC Nightly News, HLN, and in Ladies Home Journal, Women’s Day, and The Nest. Maria blogs at MamaliciousMaria.com and is a freelance writer for several parenting, health and wellness, and travel websites.More from Manilla.com:5 Tips to Stretch a Family BudgetTraveling with Kids and Curing the Are-We-There-YetsHow to Prepare Financially for a Baby