RALEIGH, NC--(Marketwired - Dec 1, 2013) - RSNA Booth 8117 -- Viztek, the leading provider of complete digital software and hardware diagnostic imaging solutions, announces today the introduction of its new PACS platform. The company has moved the entire Viztek PACS platform to a fully web-based technology that is supported on any device, enabling near-instant access to complete PACS functionality through any operating system. The PACS is being debuted at the Radiological Society of North America's (RSNA's) 99th Scientific Assembly and Annual Meeting, Dec. 1-6 in Chicago."What's novel about our approach is that instead of adding just a few features to the Viztek PACS platform each year, as most have been doing, we're going straight to the finish line by moving our entire PACS to a complete web-based interface," said Steve Deaton, vice president of sales for Viztek. "Radiologists and referrers can now benefit from getting all of the necessary tools in one place. Even specialized modality viewing, such as PET CT and Mammography, are no longer going to be confined to specific workstations."Browser-based and fully functional on all platforms, the latest PACS development operates in tandem with the recently debuted Viztek EHR solution, which has bundled all essential components of the radiology workflow process including PACS, practice management, billing, order entry, radiology reports, patient portals and other software products that they currently deliver. In response to growing requirements regarding meaningful use, Viztek has converted all of its features to the web-based platform for optimal ease of flexibility, documentation, and access.Whether radiologists are using Windows, MAC or Android, the new Viztek PACS platform enables full functionality, including sign-offs, from any secure location at any time. As radiologists read for hospitals and outside clinics, the market demands a solution that enables flexible, secure and complete reads for efficient workflow and smoother referral processes. The reads are not limited to certain viewing stations or operating systems, which demonstrates the technology's commitment to a fast and complete viewing-enabled solution that solves many of the industry's current challenges.To learn more about Viztek's new PACS platform, visit the company at RSNA Booth #8117, Hall B/North.About Viztek Viztek is a leading provider of complete digital software and hardware imaging solutions, backed by comprehensive training and support for the hospital and private practice markets. The company provides state-of-the-art, web-based Opal-RAD PACS and RIS, delivering advanced connectivity and functionality at an affordable price. The PACS and RIS solutions are complemented by Viztek's comprehensive line of CR and DR solutions, with DR panels that come in multiple configurations ranging from retrofit packages to complete new radiology rooms and mobile solutions. For more information, visit www.viztek.net.