LAWRENCEVILLE, NJ--(Marketwired - Oct 8, 2013) -
Datacolor® (www.datacolor.com), a global leader in color management solutions, announced today the appointment of William Lam, Director, Sales and Support for Asia Pacific. Mr. Lam joins Datacolor with more than 17 years of experience in sales leadership in the color management industry and will lead the company's Sales and Support organizations across Greater China, Hong Kong, South East Asia, Japan, Korea and Taiwan.Over the course of his career, Lam has held various management positions with several leading companies in Asia Pacific. Most recently, Lam was the Vice President of Sales and Marketing for Greater China, Taiwan and South East Asia for X-Rite.In his role as Datacolor's Director of Sales and Support for Asia Pacific, Lam will be responsible for providing strategic and operational leadership to the Asia Pacific regional Sales and Support organizations for both the Consumer and Industrial businesses. Lam will be accountable for implementing strategies that drive revenue growth, profitability and market development to optimize business performance. Lam will be responsible for providing leadership to a team of 50 regional sales people across the Greater China, Hong Kong, South East Asia, Japan, Korea and Taiwan region."We are pleased to welcome William to Datacolor and look forward to the contributions he will bring to the position of Director of Sales and Support for Asia Pacific," commented Brian Levey, Datacolor's Vice President of Sales and Support. "As our presence in Asia Pacific continues to grow, it is critical to have leaders with the proper experience to reach the highest levels of sales and support, and we firmly believe William is the ideal candidate to execute our vision for the Asia Pacific region in the coming years.""Discovering and implementing strategies to drive revenue growth and market development is essential to Datacolor's success, and I'm excited to be a part of the team responsible for executing the company's growth plans in the Asia Pacific," said Lam. "Working within the regional Sales and Support organizations for both the Consumer and Industrial businesses will enable me to leverage my expertise working with sales and marketing in Asia Pacific, expand the customer base across multiple channels, and broaden the overall appeal of Datacolor's diverse suite of color management products."Company Logo http://release.media-outreach.com/release.php/Images/1236About Datacolor Datacolor is a global leader in color management solutions and color communication technology. The world's leading brands, manufacturers, creative professionals and consumers have been choosing Datacolor's innovative technology and solutions to consistently achieve the right color for over 40 years.A Swiss held company, Datacolor's global presence encompasses a sales, service and support network serving customers in more than 65 countries throughout Europe, the Americas and Asia, along with 14 worldwide operation and production facilities. Industries served include apparel and textile, paint and coatings, automotive, plastics, photography, home theatre and others. For more information about Datacolor and its products or services, visit www.datacolor.com.