Electrical College of Canada StudentClick here for high-resolution versionMoreWOODBRIDGE, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - June 15, 2013) -Editors' note: A photo is associated with this press release.The Electrical College of Canada officially launched its new state-of-the-art electrical educational facility today. Ralph Cerasuolo, Founder of Electrical College of Canada, was joined by the City of Vaughan's Mayor Maurizio Bevilacqua to officially open the 7,800 square foot facility at its five-year Anniversary celebration at its new location at 90 Trowers Road in Woodbridge."We are thrilled with the success of our program. After five years of training electrical students we have definitely created a niche for our specific expertise in electrical trade education. The demand for electricians, and the success of our trade educational program, has allowed us the opportunity to expand and relocate," said Mr. Ralph Cerasuolo, Founder of the Electrical College of Canada."The Electrical College offers its students' three fully equipped classrooms and full-scale condo, residential and commercial labs so that its students get advanced electrical classroom work and real life lab work."The recent budget focussed on increasing education funding for skilled trades and second career training in specific booming trades with high job demand like the electrical field. This is great news for the industry and fantastic news for our College," said Mr. Cerasuolo. "We are thrilled by the government's commitment to the industry, and that, coupled with the growth of industrial, residential and institutional projects, will definitely result in increasing demand for skilled workers for years to come.""I am pleased to offer my sincere congratulations to the Electrical College of Canada for their commitment to skills development and education in the electrical trades," said Mayor Maurizio Bevilacqua. "As one of the fastest growing municipalities in Canada, we are proud of the many advantages in the City of Vaughan, including our highly educated workforce. I want to thank the Electrical College of Canada for their commitment to educating students to achieve their full potential. Our city welcomes you!" Story continuesCerasuolo believes that one of the reasons for the College's success is that its graduates leave the program with an equivalency of two years work experience and a chance at vast employment opportunities in the growing electrical field. The College runs a wide range of educational programs to enhance the electrical trade skillsets. It offers full time and part-time classes during the days, evenings and weekends throughout the year to accommodate all of the Students' personal goals and lifestyles. It also offers a Certificate of Qualifications Pre Exam Workshop. "The Electrical College of Canada has provided a great program for so many students and young adults, the support and resources students are given is outstanding. Students who graduate from the program are well prepared for the next phase of their careers. Congratulations to Mr .Cerasuolo and the entire team on the launch of their new facility," said Mrs. Anna DeBartolo, Trustee, York Region District School Board.The Electrical College of Canada is raising the bar in the level of new candidates coming into the trade. The demand for more post-secondary training will continue to improve the trade as a whole."The IBEW 353 Local Union has adopted our program. It has also adapted the College's high level training methods and it endorses the quality of education behind our students. The Union also runs an evening program at our college," said Mr. Cerasuolo.More about the Electrical College of CanadaRalph Cerasuolo, is a Master Electrician who has been managing his family's electrical contracting business (Neutron Electrical of Vaughan, Ont.) for 15 years. Five years ago, he launched the Electrical College of Canada (ECC). The College has been approved as a vocational program under the Private Career Colleges Act, 2005 where it includes theory and hands-on installations and processes. The College offers construction and maintenance Electrician Technician: Pre-apprenticeship programs and other general interest workshops. The College also offers workshops such as the Certificate of Qualification pre-exam course workshop designed by ECC to prepare candidates for the Certificate of Qualification exam administered by the Ministry of Training.The photo associated with this press release is available at the following address: http://www.marketwire.com/library/20130614-elect-hi.JPG