VAIL, CO--(Marketwired - June 14, 2013) - The Vail Living Well Summit founders, John and Jamie Stone, announced today that NBC News' Today Show personality Natalie Morales will emcee the 2013 Vail Living Well Summit™ (VLWS). The announcement of Morales's role adds to the already prolific lineup of nationally and internationally renowned thought leaders, researchers, doctors and pro athletes in the fields of health and well-being scheduled to present at the three day summit taking place September 19-21, 2013 in Vail, Colo.Morales describes herself as someone who is passionate about a healthy lifestyle in both her personal and professional life."I feel very strongly about health and well-being in America," said Morales. "We work too hard, and have one of the highest obesity rates in the world; we don't do enough to take care of ourselves. Too often we are looking for a quick fix, but the key to living well is a lifestyle dedicated to good health and nutrition."Before joining the Today Show, Morales was an anchor and correspondent for MSNBC from 2002 to 2006 where she covered a number of major news stories including the 2004 Presidential Election, 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens and the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster. Outside of work, Morales is an avid runner, having competed in five marathons and numerous triathlons. In 2010, she was featured on the cover of Triathlete Magazine."I like to set a good example for others," says Morales. "Sometimes just the act of competing in a race or taking on a challenge inspires others to think about health and fitness."The Vail Living Well Summit brings together top level doctors, researchers and athletes, along with health conscious individuals and influencers to connect, learn, share and have fun in the beauty of Vail. The Vail Living Well Summit utilizes evidence-based interactive and experiential small group programming for maximum takeaway for both attendees and presenters. Topics include fitness, nutrition, cognitive and emotional well-being, heart health, preventive medicine, longevity and stress, sleep health, and cutting edge breakthroughs. All programs are produced by DiscoverWell and the Sonnenalp Hotel.For more information about the Vail Living Well Summit and the event's format, speaker lineup or to register, visit www.vaillivingwell.org, Facebook or call Vail Living Well's event concierge, Kaylee Brennand at (970) 343-9918. The Vail Living Well Summit is sponsored by the Town of Vail, Triumph Partners, PGA Tour, Opedix, New Balance, The Steadman Clinic, Colorado Rapids, Colorado Access, Skea and Antlers at Vail.The following files are available for download: Natalie Morales