Stop by The Domain's offsite Information Trailer at Farmers Park in the Anaheim Packing. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreANAHEIM, CA--(Marketwired - Oct 29, 2013) - Brookfield Residential has now opened The Domain's offsite Information Trailer on the weekends across the street from the community at Farmers Park in the Anaheim Packing District. An innovative collection of townhomes and flats in the New Anaheim's revitalized Historic Colony District, The Domain by Brookfield Residential will offer smart designs, cool amenities and a lifestyle that reflects an urban state of mind. With construction underway, do not miss the opportunity to preview The Domain by visiting the offsite information trailer. For more details, visit www.BrookfieldSoCal.com and join the growing interest list today."Homebuyers who want their neighborhood to reflect their eclectic lifestyle and who prefer to live in the center of interesting, vibrant surroundings near dining, entertainment and art venues will find The Domain the perfect fit," said John O'Brien, Vice President of Development for Brookfield Residential. "The Information Trailer at Farmers Park is the ideal starting point for prospective homebuyers who will have the opportunity to preview floorplan displays and also meet with The Domain's sales team who can answer questions regarding the community's contemporary designs, private recreation and pricing, which is anticipated to start from the $400,000s. Homebuyers should also take into consideration that The Domain has no Mello-Roos fees and offers a low tax rate."The Domain's innovative designs will include a selection of townhomes and single-level flats offering 1 to 3 bedrooms and 1.5 to 2 baths in approximately 746 to 1,644 square feet of space. Technologically advanced features and impressive architecture will showcase the interior and exterior appeal of this New Anaheim address. The privacy of gated motor courts and private garages with convenient elevator access will further enhance the incredible lifestyle here.The Domain's resort-inspired recreation will offer homeowners a fantastic array of amenities, including a swimming pool, outdoor fireplaces, barbecues, plus outdoor gathering spaces and comfortable seating areas for lounging and socializing. The rooftop terrace will be the coolest spot in town, with a unique open-air space to kick back with friends and celebrate the nearby fireworks or enjoy a warm summer night.Singles and couples who want to live where the action is will discover the joy of a pedestrian-friendly address at The Domain. International cuisine and the latest bands will be right across the street at the Anaheim Packing District, where residents will enjoy the Anaheim Brewery and Umami Burger in the Packard Showroom, organic delights of Farmers Park and in the future the trendy cafes of The Packing House. The Shops at Anaheim Garden Walk, The MUZEO Museum and Center Street Promenade are all nearby for shopping, cultural and art happenings. For more information, visit www.Anaheimpackingdistrict.com.The Domain's convenient location in the heart of Orange County is a short drive from major sporting and amusement venues that include Anaheim Ice, The Grove, Honda Center, Angel Stadium and Disneyland. Three freeways are also nearby and the train station is within five minutes from the neighborhood.To receive important community updates and stay connected, log on to www.BrookfieldSoCal.com to register your interest.To visit The Domain's Information Trailer at Farmers Park in the Anaheim Packing District from the 5 Freeway, exit Lincoln Avenue and head east. Turn right on Anaheim Blvd, and Farmers Park will be on your left. The Information Trailer is open weekends only from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more details, call 888.413.2177.About Brookfield Residential Brookfield Residential Los Angeles is a premier lifestyle provider comprised of a dedicated, knowledgeable team of professionals with the passion and experience to craft exceptional new homes, neighborhoods and communities. From the goals of first time buyers to the prestige of luxury homes, we are proud to offer opportunities that embrace a diversity of aspirations. Respected as an award-winning innovator, we are recognized for delivering consistent quality, design details and an outstanding customer experience. Please visit BrookfieldSoCal.com for more information.Story continuesBrookfield Residential Properties Inc. is a leading North American land developer and homebuilder with operations in eleven major markets. We entitle and develop land to create master-planned communities and build and sell lots to third-party builders, as well as to our own homebuilding division. We also participate in selected, strategic real estate opportunities, including infill projects, mixed-use developments, infrastructure projects, and joint ventures. Brookfield Residential is listed on the NYSE and TSX under the symbol BRP. For more information, visit BrookfieldRP.com.