I’ve never been there — and don’t intend to be anytime soon — but science suggests maybe I should live in New Mexico.A new study published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology surveyed more than 1.5 million people across the U.S. over a 13-year period, Time says. Participants took a personality test, rating themselves on a scale for statements such as “I see myself as someone who can be talkative.” Researchers found the results could be roughly categorized by geographical region.Adjacent states usually had similar personality profiles, giving each region a personality profile researchers classified as “Friendly & Conventional,” “Relaxed & Creative, or “Temperamental & Uninhibited.” By looking at individual traits in individual states, Time notes, we also get some fun superlatives: Most extroverted — Wisconsin.
Least extroverted — Vermont. Most agreeable — Utah. Least agreeable — Washington, D.C. Most neurotic — West Virginia. Least neurotic — Utah.This could be helpful. It’s not outside the realm of possibility that if you live with others who share your personality traits, that could lead to more financial success. Or, at the very least, you could ask your friends from the most extroverted states for advice on haggling and your friends from the most conscientious states where to get the best coupons and deals.Time also has an abbreviated version of the quiz participants took, and by comparing your results with those in the study, it’s possible to find out which state has the most personalities similar to yours, with the exception of Alaska or Hawaii. Those two were excluded because the researchers didn’t get enough responses there.I got New Mexico. What about you? Comment below or on our Facebook page.This article was originally published on MoneyTalksNews.com as 'Study Identifies the Most Extroverted, Introverted and Neurotic U.S. States'.More from Money Talks NewsMost and Least Honest Cities in the WorldDo You Live in the Fattest State?10 States Where Driving Has Plummeted