Chicken roulade is a pretty pinwheel presentation that turns an everyday chicken dinner into a special night.This week’s Frugal Family Feast recipe provides generous servings for a family of four, plus enough for leftovers. Chef David Rosov, owner and executive chef of Palm Beach Personal Chefs, shared his technique with Money Talks News founder Stacy Johnson. Watch the video and read on for the recipe.Watch 'Frugal Family Feast: Chicken Roulade'.This is a great dish for less than $15. “Roulade” comes from a French term meaning “to roll,” and the result is a fabulous family dinner or an easy party dish. You can make them ahead of time and freeze them before cooking, so you have an elegant but quick meal when you need it.You start by filleting and flattening four boneless, skinless chicken breasts. You can do this at home or ask your butcher to do it. Chef David used ham, pesto and Swiss cheese in this recipe, but you can select your own preferred combination of vegetables and cheese to create colorful pinwheels.To help the rolls stay together while cooking, wrap each one in plastic wrap, twisting the ends like a candy wrapper, and pop them in the freezer for an hour. If you make these days in advance, defrost for 24 hours in the refrigerator before cooking.Breading is optional, but it does give a lovely golden color and a little crunch to the roulade. Chef David uses plain panko bread crumbs for a lighter texture. But if you’re watching carbs or calories, skip the breading.Brown each roll on the stovetop in an oven-safe frying pan for about five to seven minutes, and finish in the oven at 375 degrees for 35 minutes. It’s important to let the roulades rest for five to 10 minutes after you remove them from the oven so that they will slice up nicely. One-inch slices work well.Enjoy!Chicken Roulade – courtesy of Chef David RosovIngredients4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts8 ounces thinly sliced ham8 ounces sliced Swiss cheese8 ounces pesto sauce2 cups panko bread crumbs (plain)1 cup all-purpose flour4 eggs, lightly beaten.1 tablespoon butter3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oilKosher salt to tastefresh ground pepperInstructionsTo prepare the chicken breasts:With a fillet knife, make a horizontal incision through the chicken breast and open it up to make one flat piece. (Butterfly cut.)Place a gallon-size freezer bag flat on the cutting board and lay the chicken on top.Lay a second gallon-size freezer bag flat on the chicken.Using the flat side of a meat pounder, gently pound the chicken until it’s about 1/3 inch thick. Repeat with remaining chicken breasts.To make the roulade:Place the flattened chicken breast on the cutting board.Spread pesto evenly on each breast.Place ham slices evenly on the chicken, followed by the cheese slices.Roll each chicken breast into a pinwheel.Wrap each breast tightly in plastic wrap and twist both ends closed.Place the wrapped rolls in the freezer for an hour.To bread the roulade:Place three bowls side by side – one for the flour, one for the beaten eggs and one for the panko.Remove the chicken rolls from the wrap. Place a roll in the flour to coat all sides. Shake off excess.Dip in the eggs and coat evenly.Place in panko to coat all sides.To cook the roulade:Saute each roulade in olive oil and butter over medium-low heat for five to seven minutes, turning to brown all sides evenly.Bake at 375 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes.Let chicken rest for 5 to 10 minutes after removing from oven.Slice and serve.After you try this recipe, go to our Facebook page and let us know how you like it!This article was originally published on MoneyTalksNews.com as 'Frugal Family Feast: Chicken Roulade'.More from Money Talks NewsFrugal Family Feast: Gourmet Mac and CheeseFrugal Family Feast: Salmon With Creamy Dill Sauce and FettuccineHow to Find a Summer Camp Your Kid Will Be Crazy About