For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – May 16, 2013 – Today, Zacks Equity Research discusses the U.S. Medical Technologies, including Life Technologies Corporation (LIFE), Thermo Fisher Scientific (TMO), Bayer (BAYRY), Conceptus Inc. (CPTS) and Becton, Dickinson and Company (BDX).A synopsis of today’s Industry Outlook is presented below. The full article can be read at  Link: http://www.zacks.com/commentary/27290/medtech-industry-stock-update-may-2013As expected, MedTech mergers and acquisitions (M&A) are heating up in 2013. Finally, the much-hyped takeover battle for Life Technologies Corporation (LIFE) came to an end last month with Thermo Fisher Scientific (TMO) emerging as the clear winner.
For most of the last seven years, Thermo Fisher has supported its business momentum by acquiring several entities. Nevertheless, the proposed acquisition of Life Technologies is the biggest-ever deal for the company since its inception in 2006. The takeover will inevitably strengthen Thermo Fisher’s global foothold and commercial reach.
It's a Buyer’s Market
Medical device M&As are not stopping there. Wary of an uncertain economy, MedTech companies have resorted to the acquisition route to harness their strength and diversify offerings.
Last month, in a bid to strengthen its contraceptive portfolio, Bayer (BAYRY) inked a deal to buy contraceptive device-maker Conceptus Inc. (CPTS) for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. This impending acquisition will add the Essure permanent (non-surgical) birth control system to Bayer’s product portfolio. The transaction is expected to close by mid-2013.
In Mar 2013, Becton, Dickinson and Company (BDX) acquired AustriA-based Cato Software Solutions, the manufacturer of “catoA? and chemocatoA?” software, a suite of comprehensive medication safety solutions for pharmacy intravenous medication preparation, physician therapy planning and nurse bedside documentation.
Also, low global penetration and demand outstripping supply provide a positive long-term thesis for investing in the blood processing and supply chain management industry.Story continuesAbout Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks InvestmentResearch is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=4581.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearchDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comRead the analyst report on LIFE Read the analyst report on TMO Read the analyst report on BAYRY Read the analyst report on CPTS Read the analyst report on BDX Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on LIFE,TMO,BAYRY,CPTS,BDX