HEERLEN, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Jul 1, 2013) - Royal DSM, the global Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company, announces today that it has acquired Unitech Industries Limited (Unitech), a New Zealand based producer of nutritional products for both human and animal markets. Financial details are not disclosed at this time. The acquisition, which fully meets DSM's financial and strategic requirements, has closed. With the acquisition of Unitech, DSM has production facilities in over 40 countries in its Nutrition business.Unitech, based in Auckland (New Zealand), was founded in 1970 and focuses primarily on the manufacture and sale of micronutrient premixes and macronutrient blends for the rapidly growing Asian Human Nutrition & Health markets. Unitech is also active in the Animal Nutrition & Health markets including premixes for pet food. Unitech realizes annual net sales of around NZD 50 million (~EUR30 million) with about 100 employees.This acquisition fits in the strategy for DSM's Nutrition cluster as Unitech adds to DSM's already strong geographic footprint and value chain presence. Unitech is the leading producer of food ingredient premixes in Oceania, leveraging the strategic location of New Zealand for the supply of high quality, dairy containing products across Asia. Unitech holds also a strong position in the third-party manufacture of macronutrient blends.With its track record of technical service and high quality production, Unitech has a robust and loyal customer network including multinational brand names and large regional clients. DSM will enhance this value proposition with its broad portfolio of micronutrients, science-based expertise, and customer relationships with multinational and regional infant nutrition and food customers. Unitech's solution provider model will furthermore increase customer intimacy and loyalty.Rick Greubel, President DSM Nutritional Products Human Nutrition & Health, said: "The acquisition of Unitech helps us to expand our value chain presence, geographical reach and customer base. As a leader in food ingredient premixes and blends, Unitech will allow us to deliver more value to our multinational, Oceania and Asia based customers."DSM - Bright Science. Brighter Living.™Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM's 23,500 employees deliver annual net sales of around EUR9 billion. The company is listed on NYSE Euronext. More information can be found at www.dsm.com.Press release-pdf:http://hugin.info/130663/R/1712783/568552.pdfThis announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients. The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: DSM N.V. via Thomson Reuters ONE[HUG#1712783]