PARIS, FRANCE--(Marketwired - Jul 1, 2013) -
Evaps. fr now launches the flavored Joyetech electronic cigarettes to satisfy smokers with something unique. Cigarette smoke may not be favorable to everyone around. This e cigarette boutique store has many varieties of e-cigs like eGo T, eCab, C eGo, T 510 and more which have different smoking tastes.19th April 2013: Evaps Fr., a well known company, now introduced the Joyetech e-cigarette at reasonable cost. It is one of the most popular e-cigarette brands today. The flavors coming from the e cigarette do not harm the people around the person smoking. The vapors help people in tolerating the smoke who find it difficult to breathe in. Vapors nullify the effect of smoke by spreading those flavors in form of smoke.Evaps Fr. uses many vapor flavors in this e liquide which comes out when the electronic cigarette is charged completely. The Joyetech e-cigarette brand is an excellent product which is reliable as well as refillable and designed with innovation. This e-cigarette has 3 important parts in it namely the atomizer, battery and the cartridge.Strawberry, kiwi is the popular flavors in e-liquid. As the charging decreases the essence of flavors in the vapor subsides to some extent. The liquid in the e-cigarette can be changed immediately as per choice. The Joyetech e-cigarette is used to impress few people which may include elite clients in the business, circle, socialites, friends and others.A senior official from Evaps Fr shared that, "This Joyetech e-cigarette has been designed after plenty of research on social human behavior in regards to smokers. Electronic cigarette does not affect the human body lungs compared to the ordinary cigarettes. The USP of this e-cigarette is that many flavors are inhaled by the person and around in form of vapors".Evaps Fr. offers the e liquide in many bottles. This flavor can be filled in the e-cigarette and altered as per choice. The kit is very user friendly. The product is designed not only for chain smokers but also for beginners. Therefore, people willing to smoke for fun can easily use this vapor oriented Joyetech e-cigarette.Further the spokesperson from the e-cigarette boutique added, "The vapors are natural and laboratory tested. The results are verified with no harmful effects. The vapors coming out from the electronic cig smell good due to which only few chosen flavors are offered. You can use this cigarette anytime, anywhere without making your loved ones worry about the health".The Joyetech e-cigarette does not cause any pollution also.The e liquid needs to be filled in a small part of the electronic cigarette. This liquid becomes the vapor when the person starts using it. There is a complete kit available with this e-cigarette at a reasonable cost. This product is an effort to control the regular chain smokers habit by giving them a suitable alternative in this form.There are many Joyetech accessories which come along this cigarette like the cover, drip tip, adaptors/charger, rangements and more. It is easy to carry in pocket anywhere, even while travelling.For more information, you can please visit http://www.evaps.fr/