SUNNYVALE, CA and BERLIN--(Marketwired - Jul 1, 2013) -  Finisar Corporation (
NASDAQ :
FNSR ) and u2t Photonics AG announced today that they have entered into a memorandum of understanding with respect to exclusive access to and joint development of all Indium-Phosphide (InP) based Mach-Zehnder modulator (MZM) technology developed at the Fraunhofer Heinrich-Hertz-Institute (HHI). With this transaction, Finisar and u2t obtain immediate and exclusive access to HHI high speed InP modulators, including polarization multiplexed I-Q modulators for 100G coherent applications. Concurrently, u2t has acquired all of the assets of COGO Optronics GmbH, the former German operating subsidiary of COGO Optronics Inc."With the completed acquisition of COGO Optronics GmbH and the memorandum of understanding with Finisar and HHI, u2t has taken a significant step to broaden its portfolio and further strengthen its long-standing collaboration with HHI on high performance optoelectronic components for the optical communications industry," said Andreas Umbach, CEO of u2t Photonics AG."We are excited about Finisar and u2t's exclusive access to HHI's current InP MZM technology, as well as the future InP MZM technology that will be developed jointly by HHI, Finisar and u2t," said Prof. Dr. Martin Schell, Head of the Photonics Components Department at HHI. "We believe u2t's local presence and leading technical capabilities and Finisar's global reach and volume manufacturing strength represent the ideal relationship for the continued development, commercialization, and broad market adoption of HHI's InP MZM technology.""Since 2009, Finisar has worked with COGO and HHI to commercialize HHI's InP MZM technology in a number of leading 40G and 100G transceiver products. Building on that foundation, we believe this new relationship with u2t and our joint exclusive access to HHI MZM technology will enable the rapid development of new InP MZMs for next-generation 100G coherent long-haul linecards and pluggable 100G coherent metro transceivers," commented John Clark, Finisar's Executive Vice President for Technology and Global R&D. "The u2t team has a solid track record of enabling successive generations of new high speed fiber optic equipment with unique receive-side components based on HHI technology. We're looking forward to a fruitful relationship with u2t to deliver unique transmit-side solutions for data rates of 100G and above." About Finisar Finisar Corporation (
NASDAQ :
FNSR ) is a global technology leader of fiber optic subsystems and components that enable high-speed voice, video and data communications for networking, storage, wireless, and cable TV applications. For 25 years, Finisar has provided critical optics technologies to system manufacturers to meet the increasing demands for network bandwidth. Finisar is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, USA with R&D, manufacturing sites, and sales offices worldwide. For additional information, visit www.finisar.com. Stay up to date with Finisar by reading the Lightspeed blog and connect with us on Twitter, Facebook, and the Finisar YouTube Channel.About u2t Photonics AG u2t Photonics AG, founded in 1998 and headquartered in Berlin/Germany, is the leading supplier of ultra-high speed optical components up to 100 GHz. Based on its unique and mature technology u2t develops, manufactures and markets highly competitive products for high speed communication applications and detectors with superior performance for test and measurement equipment vendors. A platform approach based on building blocks enables u2t to offer a comprehensive and fully TELCORDIA qualified portfolio supporting the requirements from transponder vendors, line card and system designers as well as test equipment vendors. u2t is ISO9001 certified and offers high quality of service.Finisar is a registered trademark of Finisar Corporation.Finisar-G