Lemongrass Basil Chicken Pasta Click here for high-resolution versionMoreMISSION, KS--(Marketwired - Jul 1, 2013) - (Family Features) Many love the thrill of preparing delicious and wholesome meals for their family, but with jobs, kids and other commitments, finding the time to create such dishes can be difficult.With a little planning, you can prepare deliciously satisfying meals in a snap. Here are a few tips to save time and create mealtime favorites:Plan AheadA bit of planning makes all the difference for saving time. Begin by choosing a day of the week to visit the grocery store. Next, create a menu plan for each evening meal of the week. Scope out which supplies you need and check your basics to ensure you're properly stocked. Make meal-planning interactive by allowing each family member to choose a favorite dish for one night. This will get kids excited about what they're eating and possibly result in some extra helpers by your side.Serve Quality, Prepackaged Foods Many assume "quick and easy" prepackaged meals are bland and uninspired but this is not always the case. Some brands, such as Saffron Road, specialize in all-natural, packaged world cuisine that is easy to make and available in your local grocery store. Many of their products are gluten free, Certified Humane® and non-GMO Project Verified, meaning there are no genetically modified organisms in the ingredients. In addition, all of their products are certified Halal, guaranteeing the highest quality. This recipe for Lemongrass Basil Chicken Pasta will satisfy your craving for ethnic cuisine and is perfect for those in a pinch for time.Organize Your Kitchen SpaceNothing slows a cook down more than fumbling for a tool. Start organizing by putting similar items together and place frequently used kitchen tools close to your work space or cutting area. Place seasonal or rarely used items -- such as holiday cookie cutters -- in a storage area to save room for the essentials.Invest in Time-Saving AppliancesSome appliances make the job of the cook very easy. An investment in a slow cooker opens up a whole world of dishes that require only a few small steps. A quality rice cooker miraculously creates fluffy, perfect rice for any side or food type. A side of delicious, long grain rice is the perfect complement to an easy-to-make, ethnic-inspired meal from Saffron Road.For more delicious recipes and Saffron Road products, visit www.saffronroadfood.com.
Lemongrass Basil Chicken Pasta
2 tablespoons grape seed oil
1 pound chicken breast, cubed
1 cup Saffron Road Chicken Broth
1 cup diced carrots
1 cup sliced zucchini
8 ounces rice noodles
1 package Saffron Road Lemongrass Basil Simmer Sauce
Chopped nuts (any variety)
In large pan, heat 2 tablespoons of grape seed oil. Once hot, add cubed chicken and brown on all sides. Toss chicken with diced carrots and chicken broth. Simmer on medium heat for 5-8 minutes.Follow directions on package of rice noodles and prepare.When carrots have softened, add zucchini. Stir to combine and coat everything in pan. Cook to desired tenderness. If you like soft vegetables, allow to simmer 15-20 minutes. For a crisper taste, simmer 10 minutes.When chicken and vegetables are cooked to your taste, toss in rice noodles, making sure they are coated in the sauce. Be aware rice noodles break down quickly so add at the last moment.About Family Features Editorial Syndicate This and other food and lifestyle content can be found at www.editors.familyfeatures.com. Family Features is a leading provider of free food and lifestyle content for use in print and online publications. Register with no obligation to access a variety of formatted and unformatted features, accompanying photos, and automatically updating Web content solutions.