VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Aug 14, 2013) -
Brookemont Capital Inc. ("BKT", "Brookemont" or the "Company") (TSX VENTURE:BKT)(BKTPF)(BRO.F) is very pleased to announce that it has engaged Mr. Nick Fuller to assist with Investor Relations activities. Mr. Fuller is based in London, England and has been immersed in the Canadian junior markets for over 20 years.Mr. Conrad Clemiss, President of Brookemont states, "We are very pleased to have Mr. Fuller join the Brookemont team. Mr. Fuller has a vast base of contacts focused in Europe, Asia and North America and adds tremendous value to Brookemont. We look forward to being able to utilize Mr. Fuller's knowledge and contacts with institutional and individual investors. Since Brookemont is about to commence exploration operations on the "Albany East" Hydrothermal Graphite Prospect bordering Zenyatta Ventures Ltd., we feel that time was of the essence to engage someone of Mr. Fuller's status."Brookemont has contracted APEX Geoscience Ltd. ("Apex") to assist in the exploration and development of the "Albany East" Hydrothermal Graphite Prospect. Based on the limited historic data available for review, BKT's management feels that there is the potential for the discovery of additional magmatic hydrothermal graphite vein-breccia style mineralization similar to the Albany Graphite Deposit within this district. APEX has initiated compilation of regional airborne geophysical and historic assessment data covering the Albany East Prospect and is working with the Company to finalize its summer 2013 exploration plans.Recently, (July 12, 2013) BKT announced that based on Geological Survey of Canada and Ontario Department of Mines aeromagnetic airborne data, a significant geophysical magnetic low anomaly is evident on the recently acquired "Albany East" Hydrothermal Graphite Prospect in Ontario. The magnetic depression on the BKT claims is a possible indicator of graphite mineralization, measuring over 1.5 miles (2.6km) by 1 mile (1.6km), using the scale on the aeromagnetics map. Please refer to the aeromagnetic map on the Company's website.Mr. Gregory Thomson, P.Geo., is the qualified person for the project as defined by National Instrument 43-101 and he has reviewed the technical data in this news release.Mr. Fuller will be engaged initially for one year at a rate of $1,500 per month plus applicable expenses. Mr. Fuller will be granted 500,000 stock options at an exercise price of $0.10, in accordance with TSX Venture guidelines and upon approval from the Exchange.