BOSTON, MA--(Marketwired - Aug 14, 2013) - FashionLabel.com, the leading website for aspiring fashion design students, emerging fashion designers, and fashion enthusiasts is proud to debut Franco Vernica's handbag line."We're thrilled to have Franco Vernica on FashionLabel.com," says FashionLabel founder, Reginalde Messac. "Franco's designs are truly special and will continue to make his mark in the industry."Franco Vernica designs lux handbags and shoes. Particularly noted for his use of exotic animal leather accessories, Vernica is known for his clean, handcrafted handbags. His attention to detail and craftsmanship makes his line of handbags one of a kind. From sophisticated satchels to chic evening bags, Vernica's exceptional work remains committed to carefully upholding the principles of quality and integrity that define the brand."When designing this collection, I spent hours digging through my old CDs from the '90s I had stored away," says designer Franco Vernica. "I placed myself back into that time period to design this collection and I think that's why the fall 2013 collection turned out to be so special to me."Available in a wide range of colors and sizes, handbag collectors and fashion enthusiasts can shop Vernica's line of handbags at www.fashionlabel.com/franco-vernica.html. FashionLabel.com makes it easy and affordable for fashion students and emerging fashion designers to build their brand, connect with shoppers, and manage their business.About FashionLabel.comFashionLabel showcases the hottest designs by emerging fashion talents. Fashion enthusiasts and consumers can discover the latest trends and shop for amazing fashion pieces in one central hub. Founded by Reginalde Messac, this Boston, Massachusetts-based company provides a convenient and centralized channel for designers and design students to showcase and market their creative designs. Several fiercely creative designers have joined the FashionLabel community such as Danle Ding, Dora Yim, Jegman, Misile NY, and April 2nd. More fresh talents are coming onboard to showcase their fabulous creations. Fashion students, emerging designers, and fashion enthusiasts can find out more about the company, its products and services, by visiting www.fashionlabel.com.