http://www.JeffiFrahLaw.com Click here for high-resolution versionMoreWASHINGTON, DC--(Marketwired - Aug 14, 2013) - Shepard Smith is an American television news anchor and host of Fox Report and Studio B weekdays on Fox News Channel. Smith has been a reporter since 1985 when he worked for WCJB-TV in Gainesville, Florida. He joined the Fox News Channel at its inception in 1996 and has been a part of the Fox family ever since. Smith's latest three-year contract with the network is set to expire on October 26, 2013.During his August 7th Studio B newscast, Shepard Smith invited a prominent criminal defense attorney and a former Judge Advocate General Officer, Jeff Ifrah of Ifrah Law firm, to comment on the issue of the accused Fort Hood gunman, Major Nidal Hasan, still getting paid while behind bars. Major Hasan is an active duty member of the military who has made almost $300,000 in salary while being on trial for the November 5th, 2009 shootings in Ford Hood, TX. Smith asked for Ifrah's commentary on the recent introduction of a bill by some Republican lawmakers to stop the cash flow not just for Major Hasan, but also for any service member charged with rape, sexual assault, or capital offence. The former JAG, Jeff Ifrah, has confirmed that currently all accused members of the military are still getting paid their salary by the taxpayers until they are convicted. Furthermore, attorney Ifrah also introduced a different idea regarding the case declaring that in his opinion to right a wrong the lawmakers should focus on qualifying the victims and their families to get paid for their injuries and psychological distress, rather than focus on the compensation to the accused individual.Attorney Jeff Ifrah of Ifrah Law is widely recognized for his legal excellence and shares his valuable opinion with a number of news channels on multiple topics primarily due to his vast experience. Shepard Smith has invited him for his expertise as a trial lawyer and officer in the US Army's Judge Advocate General's Corps. While NorthJersey.com has asked him to comment on the case of Major League Baseball accusing Alex Rodriguez of using performance-enhancing drugs per Ifrah's prior experience as a special assistant US Attorney for the District of New Jersey. He has been quoted by The Wall Street Journal, USA Today, MSNBC, and other venues for his proficiency as an advocate and counselor on legal and regulatory issues for providers of online gaming experiences (sometimes called iGaming) as well as for his current service on the editorial board of the World Online Gambling Law Report.Internationally recognized as a white-collar criminal defense lawyer and litigator, Jeff Ifrah has been practicing law for over twenty years. He is the founding member of Ifrah Law, a Washington DC based 12-attorney firm with a deep bench of former government attorneys with significant defense experience in industries such as pharmaceuticals, healthcare, and technology. The firm's exceptional legal skills and record of success has resulted in its increasing not only the number of its attorneys, but also the number of its offices. Following a recent expansion of its Washington DC offices earlier this year, Ifrah Law opened offices in Northern Virginia and Maryland and is expected to open an office in Atlantic City, New Jersey later this Fall.Official Ifrah Law website and Office Locations -- http://www.ifrahlaw.com/ Jeff Ifrah Law - http://www.jeffifrahlaw.com/
http://www.twitter.com/jifrah http://www.linkedin.com/in/jeffifrah http://www.facebook.com/jeff.ifrah http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TxcqKo_uEME