MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 13, 2013) - Tintri, the leading provider of storage for virtualization and cloud environments, today announced it has been named a 2013 Emerging Technology vendor by UBM Tech Channel's CRN Magazine. The annual list highlights hot tech startups making an impact on the channel and impression on the tech industry as a whole. These up-and-coming technology vendors have recently introduced a new product or technology that is not only innovative, but generates the high margins solution providers require in today's competitive marketplace.Tintri VMstore was designed from the ground up to make storage for virtualization work more efficiently, while also drastically reducing the management process for administrators. Tintri scales globally to meet the demands of virtualized applications with manageability and visibility at the VM level, flash performance at disk prices and at a fraction of the typical data center footprint. The company's partner ecosystem includes many of the largest technology vendors and resellers on the market, and is aimed at ensuring successful server and desktop virtualization projects for end users."Any technology vendor can claim to offer innovative products and groundbreaking technology, but only a select group can truly impact the marketplace with their offerings," said Robert Faletra, CEO, UBM Tech Channel. "The companies named to the 2013 Emerging Vendor list offer solutions that deliver as promised while creating the high margins that solution providers demand. We congratulate all the vendors for their commitment to delivering technological innovations that map to the needs of the dynamic channel market.""Our partner ecosystem has experienced tremendous momentum over the past year in terms of expanding and beginning relationships with some of the biggest names in the industry," said Derek dal Ponte, senior director of channel marketing for Tintri. "Tintri's zero management approach to storage for virtualized environments offers a compelling value proposition to resellers and often opens the door to new accounts which were previously out of reach. It's an honor to be recognized as an emerging vendor in this rapidly-evolving space, and we look forward to building on this momentum as we continue to grow our partner ecosystem."The vendors that make up the CRN Emerging Technology Vendor list were founded in 2007 or later, and have revenue under $1 billion. To view the list and read the editorial accompaniment visit www.CRN.com starting August 12. The list will also be featured in the August issue of CRN magazine.Interested individuals can learn more about Tintri's partner program at http://www.tintri.com/partners.About TintriTintri Zero Management Storage™ helps IT organizations eliminate storage complexity and minimize costs for their virtualized environments. Designed from the ground up for virtualization and cloud, Tintri addresses the mismatch between storage and virtualization with the industry's first VM-Aware Storage architecture. The Tintri VMstore improves performance by as much as 10x, makes virtualization predictable and enables higher IT productivity -- all while slashing costs. Production-proven in hundreds of global enterprises, Tintri helps customers such as AMD, F5 Networks and Kawasaki Motors maximize their virtualization investments. For more information, visit www.tintri.com and follow us on Twitter: @tintriinc.About UBM Tech Channel UBM Tech Channel, a UBM company is the premier provider of IT channel-focused events, media, research, consulting, and sales and marketing services. With more than 30 years of experience and engagement, UBM Tech Channel has the unmatched channel expertise to execute integrated solutions for technology executives, managing partner recruitment, enablement and go-to-market strategy in order to accelerate technology sales. To learn more about UBM Tech Channel, visit us at http://www.ubmchannel.com. Follow us on Twitter at http://twitter.com/UBMTechChannel.About UBM llc UBM llc is a leading global business media company. We inform markets and bring the world's buyers and sellers together at events, online, in print and provide them with the information they need to do business successfully. We focus on serving professional commercial communities, from doctors to game developers, from journalists to jewellery traders, from farmers to pharmacists around the world. Our 6,000 staff in more than 30 countries are organised into specialist teams that serve these communities, helping them to do business and their markets to work effectively and efficiently. For more information, visit www.ubm.com.