Why you need to watch for a Ukraine 'flashpoint'MoreAs tensions over Ukraine continue to build, the risk of a flashpoint that could trigger conflict between Russia and the West, may be growing.On Sunday, pro-Russian rebels in east Ukraine took several European military inspectors hostage and seized the headquarters of regional television in the city of Donestsk. The U.S. and Europe are expected to increase sanctions on Moscow in response.On Monday, Japan's Nikkei opened 0.8 percent lower as investors fretted over the rising geopolitical tensions. Analysts told CNBC they were concerned the crisis was reaching a 'flashpoint' - a trigger point that could suddenly lead to full-blown violence.Read More
Asia shares fall on Ukraine worries; Nikkei drops 1% "Russia is almost poking the West, trying to look for a flashpoint to try and pursue Eastern Ukraine and try to make that a little bit more of a push from what they were previously doing in Crimea," Toby Lawson, managing director at Newedge told CNBC's
"Rundown" ."I do think markets need to be aware that this could be a flashpoint at any time," he added.Tensions between Russia and the Ukraine moved into the international spotlight in early March when Russia carried out a bloodless invasion of Ukrainian annex Crimea.Global financial markets sold off in response at the time and the Russian and Ukrainian currencies have taken a particularly harsh battering year to date. However, the wave of panic selling seemed to have subside in the following weeks as most market watchers expected tensions to cool.Read More
Ukraine crisis escalates: What this means for investors But recent weeks have seen a fresh resurgence of aggression between the two countries, after a Ukrainian military helicopter was hit by gunfire on Friday and Russia warned Kiev it would face justice for killing up to five pro-Russian rebels a day earlier. In another worrying sign, the Ukraine declared an end to the so-called Easter truce last week."In the east-west standoff over Ukraine, it's one escalatory step after another," said Nicholas Spiro, managing director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy."This is a crisis which is taking a dramatic turn for the worse - partly because it's becoming more complex and murkier with each passing day."Read More Ukraine rebels free Swedish hostage According to Spiro, Russia is using the same tactics in Eastern Ukraine as they used in their annexation of Crimea but in a more insidious and menacing manner.He added that conditions in Eastern Ukraine were also making it difficult for Western powers to intervene."Long-standing regional and local grievances, economic hardship, endemic corruption and outright criminality are all fuelling the crisis and muddying the waters," he said."It's difficult enough for the U.S. and the E.U. to know what's going on in eastern Ukraine, let alone make headway in 'de-escalating' the crisis," added Spiro.Read More
Russia 'Wants To Start World War III': Ukrainian PM Yatsenyuk The U.S. and E.U. are expected to up sanctions on Russia as early as Monday, but analysts told CNBC they doubt the sanctions would have much effect. So far the EU and U.S. have imposed travel bans and asset freezes on several officials from Russia and Ukraine."They are looking at sanctions again against Russian officials. Will that be enough to stop the Russians? I don't think so. They are pretty much on a track here to push this brinkmanship even closer," said Newedge's Lawson."Russia appears more emboldened to intervene in eastern Ukraine and believes EU countries, in particular Germany, lack the resolve to impose meaningful economic and energy sanctions," added Spiro.Russia's MICEX index is down around 13 percent year-to-date, and the rouble (Exchange:EURRUB=) has declined 8.5 percent against the dollar in the same period, while Ukraine's currency (Exchange:UAH=) has fallen around 35 percent against the dollar year-to-date.Read More As Ukraine ends truce, is Russian invasion next? More From CNBC Asia shares hit by Ukraine worries; Japan, Shanghai underperformUkraine crisis escalates: What this means for investorsRussia 'wants to start World War III': Ukrainian PM