IRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - Sep 4, 2013) - Business Communications Solutions (BCS), a leading end-to-end integrator for all telecommunication and networking needs, announced their support for the third annual TEDxOrangeCoast conference, Beautiful Minds."Sponsoring this year's TEDxOrangeCoast event is an honor for BCS," says Reza Khorramian, VP of Sales and Marketing for BCS. "We're proud to be a part of something that features leading innovators, designers, educators, and technologists, as they explore the question 'What is a Beautiful Mind?"BCS shows support with a sponsorship for the TEDxOrangeCoast conference that is known for inspiring change through positive actions by showcasing people's ideas. This year's fall annual conference will be held at the Segerstrom Concert Hall in Costa Mesa on September 20th and 21st. TEDxOrangeCoast is an independently organized event licensed by TED.If you'd like to attend or for more information about this conference visit www.tedxorangecoast.com and for other BCS supported events, visit the BCS website at www.bcsconsultants.com.About TEDxOrangeCoast TEDxOrangeCoast is a non-profit, independently organized TED event devoted to Ideas Worth Spreading through annual conferences featuring fascinating doers and thinkers who present in 18 minutes or less. Its scope has broadened to include the TEDxChallenge and TEDxTeenChallenge, which promote Ideas Worth Doing. TEDxOrangeCoast brings together a like-minded community of curious, highly engaged learners committed to inspiring change through positive actions. Learn more at www.TEDxOrangeCoast.com.About TED TED, originally an acronym for Technology, Entertainment, Design, is a nonprofit devoted to Ideas Worth Spreading. It hosts two annual conferences -- the TED Conference on the West Coast each spring, and the TEDGlobal conference in Edinburgh UK each summer -- and launched the award-winning TED Talks video site, the Open Translation Project and TED Conversations, the TED Fellows and TEDx programs, and the annual TED Prize. Learn more at www.TED.comAbout BCS Business Communications Solutions (BCS) is a technology-driven, single-source solution provider for all telecommunication and networking needs. They cover every voice and data facet to run your business -- phone systems, internet and telephone services, cabling, networking, and server room design and installation. Their unique blend of products and services allows them to get you the most value at a competitive price. They have everything ready to fit your needs, whether you're opening a new office, relocating, or upgrading your existing system. By reviewing your current situation, BCS can tailor a phone and data package that offers your company all the features you are looking for, the financial freedom to control your investment, and the scalability to meet your future needs. For more information about BCS, please visit the company's Website at www.bcsconsultants.com.