This post comes from Logan Abbott, editor of the credit cards section of MyRatePlan.com.It can be tough to decipher the confusing terms of many credit cards. Consumers often fail to read the fine print on the offers, and then are unpleasantly surprised when they get hit with penalties, higher interest rates, and other pesky fees.The U.S. Bank Visa Platinum Card seeks to simplify terms so cardholders know what to expect.Advantages Zero percent intro APR on purchases and balance transfers for 12 months. After the introductory period expires, the purchase APR reverts to a variable rate between 9.99 percent and 23.99 percent, depending on creditworthiness. The lower end of this range is pretty competitive in today’s credit card market. No annual fee. The U.S. Bank Visa Platinum Card doesn’t require an annual fee.
$0 fraud liability. Cardholders receive a $0 fraud liability guarantee for unauthorized transactions if their card is ever lost or stolen.
Free online credit score. Cardholders viewing their account information online receive an Experian credit score at no additional cost. This is a great way to stay on top of your credit report.Disadvantages No rewards program. While the introductory APR period on purchases and balance transfers is great, the card doesn’t offer a rewards program. Balance transfer fee. The 12-month introductory period on balance transfers is super if you want to consolidate debt, but like most cards, the U.S. Bank Visa Platinum Card charges a 3 percent balance transfer fee. The Barclaycard Ring MasterCard, Slate from Chase, and PenFed Promise Visa are three cards that don’t charge a balance transfer fee.Bottom lineGet it if: You have fair credit, and are looking to pay off significant credit card balances, don’t mind the transfer fee, and like the idea of seeing your credit score free.Forget it if: You have excellent credit and little to no credit card debt. If that’s you, you should opt for a card with a rewards program.Follow Logan Abbott on Google+Note: While we attempt to be completely objective when reporting on credit cards, this site may be compensated by issuers when a reader applies for a credit card through the links within credit card stories or on our credit card search page.This article was originally published on MoneyTalksNews.com as 'Review: U.S. Bank Visa Platinum Card'.More from Money Talks News5 Credit Cards With Low Interest RatesReview: Discover ItAsk an Expert: Why Should I Use Credit Cards When Cash or Debit Will Do?