For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – February 14, 2013 – Zacks Equity Research highlights Prestige Brands (PBH) as the Bull of the Day and J.C. Penney (JCP) as the Bear of the Day. In addition, Zacks Equity Research provides analysis on United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS), FedEx Corporation (FDX) and CH Robinson Worldwide Inc. (CHRW).Full analysis of all these stocks is available at http://at.zacks.com/?id=2678.Here is a synopsis of all five stocks:Bull of the Day:Consumer staple stocks don’t have to fall in the “defensive only” category, nor do they have to offer sub-par performance in a booming stock market. This is especially true if they are strong, growing brands under good management.One company that fits this description and stands out among their peers is Prestige Brands (PBH). Prestige markets, sells and distributes over-the-counter healthcare, household cleaning products and personal care products to retail outlets in the US, Canada, and certain international markets.Their recognizable brands can be found around your home and medicine cabinet, they include everything from Luden’s cough drops and Tagamet to Comet cleaner, Cloreseptic, Clear Eyes drops and more.Most people wouldn’t expect a 100% annual return from a staple stock like PBH, but that’s exactly what shares have done since I last mentioned them on February 16th, 2012 as a momentum stock.Bear of the Day:Sometimes “turn-around” stocks never turn fully around. Companies like K-Mart, Kodak, Drug Emporium and even Sears have demonstrated just how difficult it can be to change the direction of a brand that is faltering and/or reinvent a company after it has lost relevance.J.C. Penney (JCP) has been trying to reinvent itself for some time now. The company has been searching for its soul and its place between higher end department store competitors like Macy’s, Neiman Marcus and Sachs and the discounters like Target, Walmart and Marshalls.It’s been a year since the struggling department store instituted a drastic plan to get rid of most sales in favor of everyday low prices and dramatically change the look and feel of their stores. CEO Ron Johnson is working to transform every part of the business from the brands it carries to the store experience, but the overhaul has been more challenging than expected and shareholders are getting frustrated.At the end of the month (February 27th) JCP is expected to report earnings. According the Zacks ESP, which is registering a negative 130% on an expected loss of 13 cents, it won’t be pretty in all likelihood. In fact, JCP has logged four consecutive quarters of big sales drops and net losses since it implemented its new pricing strategy. Latest Posts on the Zacks Analyst Blog: Logistics Firms Heart Valentine’s DayWith Valentine's Day right around the corner, lovers are in a hurry to send gifts to their sweethearts. This translates into solid business for logistic companies by delivering gifts to our doorsteps.
Thanks to the millions of celebrants across the globe, Valentine’s Day remains special for logistics firms. The event drives a surge in sales for these firms.
According to latest reports by National Retail Federation, average Valentine’s Day individual spending is expected to be $130.97, up from $126.03 last year. This brings total cash outflows to an estimated $18.6 billion this Valentine’s Day.
The federation also reported that a large chunk (approximately 50%) of these expenditures would be on candies and other edible products followed by flowers, accounting for approximately 30%. The rest would include expenditures on valuable items like jewelry and apparels. If these figures set the retail industry on the go, the packaging industry will not remain far behind from benefiting from the Big Day.
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) recently reported that it expects to ship nearly 95 million flowers through its network. In addition, it has joined with companies like Vermont Teddy Bear Company, LobsterGram Inc. and Fairytale Brownies to ship Valentine’s Day goodies for incremental revenues.
To support timely deliveries with utmost care these packaging companies also remain equipped with proper facilities like temperature control containers, express delivery services, massive warehousing and hassle-free customs clearance. Companies like UPS have also set up 130 additional flight services for its customers.
Globalization has indeed brought the world so close that every individual is connected with a matrix of various networks governed by modern technology. Whether this has simplified our lives or made it more complicated remains subjective, but surely it has driven trade and economics to a level where any event (good or bad) has a global impact. Apart from other factors, globalization has certainly given a boost to e-commerce and largely influenced consumer behavior.
Reaping benefits from the current trends, logistic companies like UPS, FedEx Corporation (FDX) and CH Robinson Worldwide Inc. (CHRW) are generating a good amount of their business from events like New Year and Christmas, celebrated worldwide. With the help of an expanded market reach and advanced infrastructure, freight carriers are now able to maximize profitability with shipments across the globe.
The usual business days aside, periods like the holiday season and special events like Valentine’s Day remain important sales boosters. These generally provide an uptick in sales in an otherwise lackluster demand environment.
Overall, we expect this Valentine’s Day to cheer up packaging companies with good volumes that would ultimately reflect in their quarterly results. Amid economic upheavals, fiscal cliff debacle and nearing of budget sequester, we believe Valentine’s Day will bring some relief for the parcel companies.Story continuesGet the full analysis of all these stocks by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2649.About the Bull and Bear of the DayEvery day, the analysts at Zacks Equity Research select two stocks that are likely to outperform (Bull) or underperform (Bear) the markets over the next 3-6 months.About the Analyst BlogUpdated throughout every trading day, the Analyst Blog provides analysis from Zacks Equity Research about the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous analyst coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=7158.About ZacksZacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks InvestmentResearch is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=4582.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com    Read the analyst report on PBH Read the analyst report on JCP Read the analyst report on UPS Read the analyst report on FDX Read the analyst report on CHRW Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on PBH,JCP,UPS,FDX,CHRW