A New Formula of Weight Loss Supplement, D-Fine8ZERO Sugar-Free Provides Energy and Weight Loss.Irvine, CA, USA - November 24th, 2013 /MarketersMedia/ -- Hans Drake International Corp. (Musclewerks.com) has recently launched a new formula of their sugar-free energy and weight loss supplement, D-Fine8ZERO. This formula will increase energy levels while curbing the appetite and burning excess fat with no sugar added.Ultimately, there are always some areas of stubborn fat on the body that remains even on the most trained individuals. It can be difficult to remove this fat safely and in a way the body still has energy. Oftentimes, diets will drain one`s energy levels. Oftentimes, excess energy foods convert into fat, which makes it difficult to lose that fat and still feel energized.D-Fine8ZERO contains various active ingredients that will help to curb the appetites while offering the body ways to maintain its energy levels all day long. It also helps enhance the mood and prevents the common symptom of irritability felt when the body is drained from energy. It also has an abundance of B vitamins that helps metabolism and mood and makes the formula more complete in terms of a health supplement. These natural ingredients mean that the person taking it gets extra energy without the notorious crash associated with similar products on the market.This is more than just a weight loss system, but a way to eat less and to burn fat off that dieting and exercise alone cannot achieve. D-Fine8ZERO uses the body`s own metabolism to burn fat and turns it into energy. Both Epigallocatechin Gallate and Citrus Aurantium are present in this supplement, which turns on the fat-burning furnace in the body and helps to oxidize fat pathways to exit the body. The burning of fat contributes to the increased energy the person taking the supplement feels.This supplement helps to burn stubborn fat while increasing both mood and energy. All of these things will contribute to a happier life and the means to be more active and become healthier. For more information on workout supplements, visit www.Musclewerks.com.About Hans Drake International Corporation: Hans Drake International Corporation is dedicated to offering fitness workout supplements and products that deliver result. They use only the finest ingredients on the market. All of their products are the result of extensive scientific research, which generates into unique and effective formulas for their customers. As a leader in the world of fitness enhancements and supplements, Hans Drake International Corp and Musclewerks.com pride themselves on never compromising the integrity of their products to cause harm to its users.Visit http://www.musclewerks.com/ for more information.Contact Info Name: J. Braunstein
Organization: Hans Drake International Corp.
Phone: (800) 730-7703 Email: fitness@hansdrake.com###This announcement is sourced from MarketersMedia [Link].This announcement is distributed by NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions on behalf of NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions clients.The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: MarketersMedia via GlobeNewswireHUG#1745398