For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – February 11, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM), Intel Corp. (INTC), Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN), Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) and General Mills, Inc. (GIS).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Friday’s Analyst Blog: Qualcomm Upgraded to OutperformOn Feb 6, we upgraded our recommendation on Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) to Outperform based on the company’s fourth quarter of 2012 financial results, which significantly outpaced the Zacks Consensus Estimates.Why the UpgradeQualcomm has firmly established its leadership position in the high-end smartphone segment. The company is the major beneficiary to the significant growth of 3G wireless technologies and smartphones in the emerging markets, particularly in China.The next-generation super-fast 4G Long Term Evolution (:LTE) technology has also boosted Qualcomm. We believe the long-term fundamentals of the company are very much intriguing given the increasing demand for LTE-enabled mobile handsets in the U.S., Japan, and South Korea. Qualcomm currently has a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy).Other PositivesQualcomm currently has more than 225 royalty bearing licensees throughout the world. Additionally, the company has over 40 single-mode OFDMA licensees. The demand for dual-core MSM8960/Krait tripled sequentially in the reported quarter. At present, more than 450 Snapdragon-based devices are in the pipeline and over 100 devices are based on the company’s Reference Design solutions.Qualcomm has announced its next-generation processors called Snapdragon 600 and 800. These chipsets will provide 40-75% increased performance over the S4 Pro series and are the first chips operating on TSMC 28nm technology. Snapdragon 600 will have Quad Core Krait 300 CPU running up to 1.9 GHz and Adreno 320 GPU. Snapdragon 800 will include Quad Core Krait 400 CPU running up to 2.3 GHz and Adreno 330 GPU. These LTE-enabled chipsets will also have integrated 802.11 ac Wi-Fi connections. Management raised its previous outlook for fiscal 2013 primarily due to growing adoption of 4G LTE networks in North America, rapid transition from 2G to 3G in China and India, and increasing licensing revenue. The company is quite confident that it will be able to retain its current pace of revenue and earnings growth for at least the next five years.Other Stocks to ConsiderOther stocks to consider in the semiconductor industry are Intel Corp. (INTC), Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) and Broadcom Corp. (BRCM). All these three companies handily beat the Zacks Consensus Estimates in most recent quarter and these three stocks currently have a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). General Mills Hits 52-Week HighGeneral Mills, Inc. (GIS), a producer of branded consumer food recently reached a 52-week high of $42.61 on Feb 7, 2013, on the back of strong second quarter results.
Growth Drivers
General Mills’ strong market share position in some leading food categories, its growing international presence, strategic acquisitions and focus on innovation and brand support, along with the cost saving efforts are the drivers of the stock.
The company reported a strong second quarter fiscal 2013, beating Zacks Consensus Estimates by 8.9%, on the back of recent acquisitions, better-than-expected sales and profits in the U.S. retail business and lower interest expenses and favorable taxes.Revenues mostly benefited from acquisitions, mainly the purchase of Brazilian food maker Yoki Alimentos (in August 2012) and Yoplait Canada. The company has outpaced earnings estimates in three out of the last four quarters.   The company upped its fiscal 2013 adjusted earnings guidance to a range of $2.65–$2.67 from prior expectations of approximately $2.65 a share. Both sales and operating profits are expected to increase in the mid-single digit range.Importantly, however, the guidance now includes the benefits from the Yoki and Yoplait Canada acquisitions, which were previously excluded from the outlook. The U.S. retail business is expected to deliver low single-digit sales growth while operating profit is expected to grow faster than sales.Story continues Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on QCOM Read the analyst report on INTC Read the analyst report on TXN Read the analyst report on BRCM Read the analyst report on GIS Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on QCOM,INTC,TXN,BRCM,GIS