NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Nov 1, 2013) - Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP, a leading national securities law firm, reminds investors in L & L Energy, Inc. ("L & L Energy" or the "Company") (
NASDAQ :
LLEN ) of the November 22, 2013 deadline to seek the role of lead plaintiff in a federal securities class action lawsuit filed against the Company and certain executives.A complaint has been filed on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired L & L Energy securities between September 11, 2012 and September 18, 2013 (the "Class Period") in the Southern District of New York.The complaint alleges that the Company and its executives violated federal securities laws with respect to its disclosures concerning its business, operations, and financial performance.Specifically, the action focuses on whether L & L Energy made false and/or misleading statements and/or failed to disclose that: (i) the Company claimed acquisitions and divestitures of various properties through fraudulent swap transactions; (ii) the Company improperly accounted for a substantial amount of revenue from operations that had previously been closed; and (iii) the Company did not have adequate internal and financial controls throughout the Class Period.On September 19, 2013, the SeekingAlpha website published a report by GeoInvesting, a company that provides research and analysis on U.S.-listed Chinese companies. The report claimed that L & L Energy defrauded investors and disclosed that GeoInvesting is planning to file a whistleblower report with the NASDAQ and the SEC informing them of these findings.On this news, L & L Energy's stock plummeted more than 38% to close at $1.27 per share on September 19, 2013.Request more information now by clicking here: www.faruqilaw.com/LLEN. There is no cost or obligation to you.Take ActionIf you purchased L & L Energy stock or options between September 11, 2012 and September 18, 2013 and would like to discuss your legal rights, visit www.faruqilaw.com/LLEN. You can also contact us by calling Richard Gonnello or Francis McConville toll free at 877-247-4292 or at 212-983-9330 or by sending an e-mail to rgonnello@faruqilaw.com or fmcconville@faruqilaw.com. Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP also encourages anyone with information regarding L & L Energy's conduct to contact the firm, including whistleblowers, former employees, shareholders, and others.Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP is a national law firm which represents investors and individuals in class action litigation. The firm is focused on providing exemplary legal services in complex litigation in the areas of securities, shareholder, antitrust and consumer litigation, throughout all phases of litigation. The firm has an experienced trial team which has achieved significant victories on behalf of the firm's clients. To keep track of the latest securities litigation news, follow us on Twitter at www.twitter.com/MergerActivity or on Facebook at www.facebook.com/FaruqiLaw.Attorney Advertising. The law firm responsible for this advertisement is Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP (www.faruqilaw.com). Prior results do not guarantee or predict a similar outcome with respect to any future matter. We welcome the opportunity to discuss your particular case. All communications will be treated in a confidential manner.