Laser Affair, who is known for their cost effective laser hair removal service in Tampa, FL, announces new deals and special packages their services for this Christmas.Florida, United States - November 1st, 2013 /MarketersMedia/ -- Unwanted hair is a common problem people face, regardless of their gender. It is often said to be a result of ethnic background or heredity. There is a lot of social pressure too, to get rid of this unwanted hair and many people want to be free from razors, tweezing, waxing, stubble and ingrown hairs. As an alternative and solution to this, Laser affair offers safe and permanent hair removal of unwanted body hair for men and women. Laser Affair, which is known for their cost effective laser hair removal service Tampa FL, announces a new deal and special package their services for this Christmas.Mary Beth Lambert, the founder of Laser Affair holds laser certifications by the Candela, Syneron and CynoSure laser manufacturing corporations. She is also a member of the Society of Clinical and Medical Hair Removal and the Electrolysis Association of Florida, Incorporation. Laser Affair said to be the only local service provider with a `Pay as you go hair removal` feature, as most providers require a lump sum payment for X treatments.The new Christmas deal also adds their underarm laser hair removal as a no cost compliment to the purchase of a full Brazilian extended laser hair removal package. This special cannot be combined with other special offers or discounts. Unlike other providers, Laser affair has no long-term contracts. They help users remove hair from anywhere on the body except within the orbital rim of the eye. The usage of superior equipment, the availability of a laser specialist, privacy policies and user-friendly services are factors that set Laser Affair apart from other providers."At Laser Affair, every client is thoroughly evaluated and a personalized plan is made. We explain what we are doing and why we are doing it. We do not intend to bore you with the facts, but be warned, we are very passionate about our profession!" Mary Beth Lambert, told to Broadcasterr about Laser Affair. She adds that users can redeem their Purchased package until May 15, 2014.Story continuesDetailed information on their Christmas deal and other hair removal service packages can be found at their website: http://www.laseraffair.com/547/laser-hair-removal-deal-for-christmas/Visit http://www.laseraffair.com for more information.Contact InfoName: Mary Beth Lambert Organization: Laser Affair Inc. Phone: (813) 3047 Email: marybeth@laseraffair.com ###This announcement is sourced from MarketersMedia [Link].This announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: MarketersMedia via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1740117