* Weak yen lifts exporters* Janet Yellen comments this week in focus - analyst* Citizen Holdings jumps to 5-year high on strong forecastsBy Ayai TomisawaTOKYO, Nov 11 (Reuters) - Japan's Nikkei share averagejumped 1.3 percent on Monday morning, rebounding from theprevious session's selloff after an unexpectedly strong U.S.jobs report put to bed any lingering concerns about the pace ofeconomic recovery.U.S. employers took on 204,000 new employees last month,almost double the expected 125,000 and defying expectations thatthe partial U.S. government shutdown would hamper job growth.The strong data also raised the prospect the Federal Reservemay soon decide to start winding down its $85 billion-a-monthbond-buying programme, though Fed Chairman Ben Bernankesuggested the U.S. central bank was in no hurry to taper.The Nikkei gained 182.79 points to 14,269.59 inmid-morning trade, with initial resistance seen around its25-day moving average of 14,306.51. It fell 1.0 percent onFriday.Exporters led the way after the yen weakened, with HondaMotor Co up 1.8 percent, chip-related shares TokyoElectron Ltd adding 2.1 percent and Advantest Corpsoaring 3.0 percent.The dollar jumped around 1 percent against the yen on Fridayand last stood at 99.17 after the upbeat U.S. jobs databolstered the case for the Fed to scale back stimulus as earlyas next month.The Topix rose 0.7 percent to 1,184.80."Investors were relieved to see that the U.S. economicrecovery is on track," said Tsuyoshi Nomaguchi, managingdirector at investment strategy at Daiwa Securities. "For thisweek, the market moves are likely to depend on comments from Fedofficials including Janet Yellen."This week brings several speeches by Fed officials, but keywill be a hearing Thursday before the U.S. Senate BankingCommittee on the nomination of Fed Vice Chair Yellen to replaceBernanke.Elsewhere, Citizen Holdings Co jumped 9.8 percentto a 5-year high and was the third biggest percentage gainerStory continuesafter the watchmaker raised its forecasts. It now expects anoperating profit for the year ending March of 21 billion yen,from the previously forecast 19.5 billion yen.Among the notable losers, Olympus Corp stumbled 6.3percent to a one-month low after it said it expects an operatingloss of 5 billion yen in the digital camera business for theyear through March, compared to a previously forecast break-evenguidance.