SANTA CLARA, CA--(Marketwired - Oct 16, 2013) - DEMO Booth: D13 - Today, herecandy announced the launch of Context, a new way to discover and share content on your iOS device at DEMO Fall 2013, world-renowned for launching the most innovative companies in mobile, big data, health, enterprise, consumer, hardware and wearable computing technologies. Discover and share content based on your specific and unique personalized interests on your iOS device. Context by herecandy provides a new way to discover content based on your location and social feeds, to smartly share with the right people in your social graph, and browse the web on your mobile device. Finally, a personalized web on mobile. "Context learns what you like, what your friends like, and where you are, and turns that into smarter discovery, sharing, and search on your mobile device." - Jason Arbon, Co-founder herecandyherecandy will provide a live, four-minute demonstration of Context on the DEMO Fall 2013 stage at 9am on Wednesday, October 16 and will host live demonstrations beginning today at Booth D13 in the DEMO Fall 2013 pavilion."Herecandy's vision to tightly merge search and social media with its mobile app, Context, is a great fit for DEMO. I look forward to seeing Context in action live from the DEMO stage". - Erick SchonfeldABOUT herecandy Jason Arbon and Heidi Young share a passion for personalization, search, discovery, and sharing. Both have long histories in these areas. Context is Jason's brainchild after spending years working on web search at Google and Microsoft. He has always believed in using user context to enhance the search and browse experience. He helped lead efforts in web search, personalization, browse, and social at both Google and Microsoft. After sharing his frustration about the lack of movement in this space with Heidi, Context was born. Heidi was leading web search personalization efforts at Bing while at Microsoft and shared Jason's passion for creating a more relevant experience that went beyond ten blue links. They came together and created Context, which is only the beginning of their plans to personalize the web. ABOUT DEMO Produced by the IDG Enterprise events group, the worldwide DEMO conferences focus on emerging technologies and new products innovations, which are hand selected from across the spectrum of the technology marketplace. The DEMO conferences have earned their reputation for consistently identifying cutting-edge technologies and helping entrepreneurs secure venture funding and establish critical business. For more information on the DEMO conferences, visit http://www.demo.com/.All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.