Finisar Manufacturing Facility in Wuxi, China (October 2013) Click here for high-resolution versionMoreSUNNYVALE, CA and WUXI, CHINA--(Marketwired - Oct 15, 2013) -   Finisar Corporation (
NASDAQ :
FNSR ) today held a grand opening and ribbon-cutting ceremony for its new state-of-the-art production facility in Wuxi, China. Located in Jiangsu Province, about one hour from Finisar's Shanghai plant, the event was attended by government officials, executive management, and many local employees. The land provides 550,000 square feet of open space and will house two new multi-level buildings. The first building is now open and the second building will begin construction by the end of 2013. This facility will focus primarily on the manufacture of tunable and parallel transceivers, WSS modules, ROADM line cards, passive components, and high-end optical subassemblies used in VCSELs and detectors."As the demand for high-speed optical products continues, our new Wuxi facility will add much needed manufacturing capacity in China," said Jerry S. Rawls, Executive Chairman of Finisar. "Finisar will continue to invest in the infrastructure required to give our customers critical access to products as market demands increase. We are very proud of our local management team and employees that have worked so hard to make this a reality.""The addition of the Finisar Wuxi plant is a great example of our worldwide manufacturing strategy which supports continually increasing levels of high volume production along with competitive production costs," said Joe Young, Executive Vice President of Global Operations. "We are confident that the Wuxi facility will match the quality and performance of other Finisar plants around the globe that our customers are accustomed to."This year, Finisar is also celebrating its 25 year anniversary in the optical communications industry and the opening of the Wuxi facility is a significant highlight. Finisar is one of only a few optics companies to operate its own manufacturing sites which allow the ability to quickly ramp up volumes and shift production from one product to another as needed. Finisar Wuxi joins other Finisar manufacturing sites worldwide, including Ipoh, Malaysia; Shanghai, China; Fremont, California; Allen, Texas; and Jarfalla, Sweden.About Finisar
Finisar Corporation (
NASDAQ :
FNSR ) is a global technology leader for fiber optic subsystems and components that enable high-speed voice, video and data communications for telecommunications, networking, storage, wireless, and cable TV applications. For 25 years, Finisar has provided critical optics technologies to system manufacturers to meet the increasing demands for network bandwidth. Finisar is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, USA with R&D, manufacturing sites, and sales offices worldwide. For additional information, visit www.finisar.com.Finisar-G