SANTA CLARA, CA--(Marketwired - Oct 16, 2013) - Hello Doctor™ officially launched today at DEMO Fall 2013. The new solution enables you to control your health, by managing medical records from multiple sources and providing real-time access to all the information you need in order to understand your medical condition.A complete view of your current medical condition and the knowledge that you control your medical records eases the stress of medical visits. With Hello Doctor, your medical records are organized in SmartLists™ where simple navigation options guarantee your records and medical history can be accessed at any time.Hello Doctor makes sure you will not forget documents at home again, but it also helps you remember everything you need to ask or tell your doctor. The "Notes" feature enables to add notes anywhere on your medical record, just as they pop in your head and all your "mental notes" are here to stay."25% of the US population is in a medical condition that requires them to actively collect and manage medical records for themselves or a loved one and these records come from many different sources," says Maayan Cohen, co-founder and CEO of Hello Doctor, adding: "When my partner was diagnosed with a brain tumor, I was his care-giver. Once he had won his battle, I decided to make this process easier for others. Hello Doctor increases patient engagement, by providing tools that help you control your health."Being aware of how many medical records people may already have, Hello Doctor offers the possibility to use the "Record Tagger," which enables people to scan and email a PDF of their medical records and these will be added and tagged in the application for them.Erick Schonfeld, Executive Producer of DEMO, witnesses the growth of mobile health: "Every year, we have more startups pushing the boundaries of digital and mobile health. Hello Doctor helps patients take control of their healthcare by giving them control over their health data."Meet Hello Doctor VideoFree download on the App Store.About Hello DoctorFounded in February 2013, Hello Doctor™ is a mobile solution that enables you to better control your health by managing medical records from multiple sources. Organized in SmartLists™, the simple navigation options provide you easy real-time access to all the information that will help you understand and control your medical condition.ABOUT DEMOProduced by the IDG Enterprise events group, the worldwide DEMO conferences focus on emerging technologies and new products innovations, which are hand selected from across the spectrum of the technology marketplace. The DEMO conferences have earned their reputation for consistently identifying cutting-edge technologies and helping entrepreneurs secure venture funding and establish critical business. For more information on the DEMO conferences, visit http://www.demo.com/.All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.