SANTA CLARA, CA--(Marketwired - Oct 16, 2013) - Pristine, an early developer of applications for Google Glass, today announced it will launch two Google Glass applications, Pristine EyeSight and Pristine CheckLists, for surgical teams and support staff from the DEMO Fall 2013 stage. Pristine will present and demonstrate its new offerings from DEMO, world-renowned for launching the most innovative companies in enterprise, mobile, cloud computing, consumer and social media technologies, on Thursday, October 17, 2013 at 11:05 a.m. PDT.Pristine EyeSight is the first HIPAA-compliant first-person video streaming solution optimized for patient care environments. Designed to stream secure live audio and video to and from Google Glass, Pristine EyeSight supports one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-one streams for delivery to and from Glass, Android phones and tablets, iPhones and iPads, and PCs. Pristine EyeSight improves patient treatment outcomes by enabling remote surgery and specialty consults, supporting teaching and training sessions and coordinating information across a wider network of care.The company's second offering, Pristine CheckLists, provides role-based, configurable and voice-driven checklists to surgeons, nurses, support staff and technicians to ensure compliance and improve patient care coordination. Both Pristine applications are currently being tested with patients at the University of California, Irvine Medical Center, with pilots beginning with The CORE Institute in conjunction with Banner Health."Pristine's new Google Glass applications for surgical teams and support staff look very promising and we're excited to be part of the pilot program," said David Jacofsky, MD, Chairman and CEO of The CORE Institute. "We believe that by utilizing these advanced applications we will further improve patient outcomes as we expand and implement our Excellence through Evidence® platform across the nation.""Google Glass needs a handful of key apps to succeed as a consumer product. We can give healthcare professionals a suite of applications that will show immediate results and improve safety, efficiency and teaching," said Kyle Samani, co-founder and CEO of Pristine. "The Pristine platform provides secure and HIPAA-compliant ways to coordinate, communicate and enhance patient care.""Even with the flood of mobile devices in the enterprise, the healthcare space has unique requirements for adopting the same conveniences and capabilities," said Erick Schonfeld, executive producer of DEMO. "Pristine understands the needs of healthcare providers and how to leverage the capabilities of Google Glass into becoming as common in hospitals as the stethoscope."Pristine will provide a live, four-minute demonstration of Pristine EyeSight and Pristine CheckLists on the DEMO Fall 2013 stage on Thursday, October 17th at 11:05 a.m. PDT and will host live demonstrations beginning today at Booth D26 in the DEMO Fall 2013 pavilion.ABOUT PRISTINE Pristine is pioneering Google Glass in the operating room by building a suite of applications for surgeons, anesthesiologists, nurses, OR managers and administrators to streamline the entire surgical workflow -- pre op, intra op, and post op. Privately held and based in Austin, TX, Pristine was founded in May 2013 by Kyle Samani and Patrick Kolencherry. Pristine is part of Austin-based Capital Factory Incubator program, and secured seed funding totaling $500,000. More information on Pristine and the Pristine suite of applications can be found at pristine.io, blog.pristine.io and by following @PristineIO on Twitter.ABOUT THE CORE INSTITUTE The CORE Institute® delivers integrated, comprehensive orthopedic care, one patient at a time. The CORE Institute is built upon a foundation of pioneering research, academics, community service, and a passion for excellence in patient care. The CORE Institute has locations in Arizona and Michigan, with clinics planned to open in other states, as well as overseas, in the near future. The organization continues to be a leader in payor-reform initiatives and is at the forefront of systems-based quality programs which drive value and quality across health care organizations.ABOUT DEMO Produced by the IDG Enterprise events group, the worldwide DEMO conferences focus on emerging technologies and new products innovations, which are hand selected from across the spectrum of the technology marketplace. The DEMO conferences have earned their reputation for consistently identifying cutting-edge technologies and helping entrepreneurs secure venture funding and establish critical business. For more information on the DEMO conferences, visit www.demo.com.All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.