Erik McMillan, Founder & CEO of Shelfbucks, Inc. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreSANTA CLARA, CA--(Marketwired - Oct 16, 2013) - Technology start-up Shelfbucks today announced the launch of a new smartphone-based technology that enables brands to communicate special offers, coupons and other information directly to consumers in the retail setting. The new Shelfbucks technology also helps brands and retailers reduce showrooming, gain actionable data on shopper behavior and increase sales opportunities.Shelfbucks was introduced at DEMO Fall 2013, renowned for launching innovative companies in enterprise, mobile, cloud computing, consumer, and social media technologies.Shelfbucks incorporates in-store devices installed on display shelves throughout the retail location. A shopper browsing a product area accesses the Shelfbucks device with a smartphone, immediately downloading information, coupons or other real-time discount offers on products located on the shelves in front of them. The shopper can immediately redeem the special offer, thus eliminating the need for additional online research or showrooming, while saving time and enjoying a superior shopping experience.Retailers and brands achieve unprecedented customer interaction and 100 percent visibility for their offers, as shoppers must opt in to engage with the Shelfbucks smartphone app. The Shelfbucks portal enables users to instantly create and launch in-store digital campaigns across multiple retailers and locations with the ability to make real-time adjustments within the portal. The Shelfbucks portal also delivers advanced customer behavior data in real time, enabling retailers to track patterns, categories, impressions (taps), clicks, sales and redemptions, and spending habits."Historically, brands have had limited influence at the point of purchase, and in-store campaigns have required tremendous planning with no ability to adjust in real time or significantly influence redemption rates," said Shelfbucks CEO Erik McMillan. "Today we know that nearly 80 percent of smartphone owners are smartphone shoppers, and 84 percent of those consumers use their smartphones to shop in the store. Shelfbucks technology provides the only direct mobile channel to in-store customers. We can quickly optimize consumer interaction, maximize coupon redemption and ensure long-term customer engagement," he said.Story continuesErick Schonfeld, executive producer of DEMO, noted that Shelfbucks represents a new level of smartphone technology that will drive long-term innovation."Shelfbucks is bringing online advertising techniques to physical retail stores with clever technology and targeting. The Internet of Things is here and wants to help you shop," said Erick Schonfeld, executive producer of DEMO.Shelfbucks provided a live, six-minute demonstration of its smartphone-based solution on the DEMO Fall 2013 stage and will host live demonstrations beginning today at Booth D5 in the DEMO Fall 2013 pavilion.Prior to launching Shelfbucks, McMillan founded BestFit Mobile, developers of advanced iOS and Android mobile apps for leading international retailers and enterprises. He is supported by an executive team of similarly successful entrepreneurs and retail technology specialists from Dell, Mail.com, Groupon, CompuCom, HomeAway and Demand Media.Shelfbucks attracted seed funding from a high-profile group of executives representing a diverse mix of technology and retail backgrounds, including Appcelerator, Bazaarvoice, Black Locus, Capital Factory, Google, HomeAway and ShopperTrak.About Shelfbucks Headquartered in Austin, Texas, Shelfbucks develops and markets smartphone-based solutions designed to reinvent how consumers interact with product brands in retail locations. Shelfbucks technology enables brands to communicate special offers, coupons and other information directly to consumers in the retail setting. Shelfbucks also helps brands and retailers reduce showrooming, gain actionable data on shopper behavior and increase sales opportunities. Additional information on Shelfbucks is available at www.Shelfbucks.com.About DEMO Produced by the IDG Enterprise events group, the worldwide DEMO conferences focus on emerging technologies and new products innovations, which are hand selected from across the spectrum of the technology marketplace. The DEMO conferences have earned their reputation for consistently identifying cutting-edge technologies and helping entrepreneurs secure venture funding and establish critical business. For more information on the DEMO conferences, visit http://www.demo.com/.All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.