CHICAGO, IL--(Marketwired - Aug 19, 2013) - Justine Fedak, Senior Vice President and Head of Brand, Advertising and Sponsorships for BMO Financial Group, North America is being honored today by the National MS Society as their 2013 Woman on the Move. This is the 6th year the MS Society has honored local and community business leaders who are going above and beyond to promote awareness about MS and its challenges and to raise critical funds for MS programs, services and research. "Justine is a tremendous leader who has led a number of significant initiatives to raise the visibility of BMO everywhere we do business. At the same time, she is just as passionate about supporting our community, being an advocate for healthy living and mentoring diverse and emerging leaders," said Mark Furlong, President and CEO, BMO Harris Bank. "On behalf of her 46,000 North American colleagues, we applaud Justine for always seizing every opportunity to make a difference.""Through her professional, philanthropic and volunteer involvement across the community, Justine is one of Chicago's true civic leaders," said John Blazek, President, Greater Illinois Chapter of the National MS Society. "She is an inspiration to us all and we are grateful for her ongoing dedication to the Society's cause and mission." "I'm very proud to be a part of the MS Society's important work. Nobody wants to be diagnosed with MS, but for me now it is a gift -- accepting the honor and challenge of MS WOM has inspired me to be in love with every minute of my life and embrace being a voice for people with non-visible disability," Fedak said. "I want to thank BMO for making work a safe place to be open and to everyone involved with MS WOM for allowing me the chance to raise funds and awareness."The luncheon honoring Justine is taking place at the Ritz-Carlton Chicago beginning at 11:30 a.m. Fedak and representatives from the National MS Society will be available immediately afterwards to discuss the work that is needed to find a cure for multiple sclerosis as well as how more people can get involved to help those who are living with this devastating illness.About BMO Harris Bank BMO Harris Bank provides a broad range of personal banking products and solutions through over 600 branches and approximately 1,300 ATMs in Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, Minnesota, Nevada, Arizona and Florida. BMO Harris Bank's commercial banking team provides a combination of sector expertise, local knowledge and mid-market focus throughout the U.S. For more information about BMO Harris Bank, go to the company fact sheet. Deposit and loan products and services provided by BMO Harris Bank N.A. Member FDIC. BMO Harris Bank(SM) is a trade name used by BMO Harris Bank N.A. BMO Harris Bank is part of BMO Financial Group, a North American financial organization with approximately 1,600 branches, and approximately $555 billion in assets (as of April 30, 2013).About Multiple Sclerosis Multiple sclerosis, an unpredictable, often disabling disease of the central nervous system, interrupts the flow of information within the brain, and between the brain and body. Symptoms range from numbness and tingling to blindness and paralysis. The progress, severity and specific symptoms of MS in any one person cannot yet be predicted, but advances in research and treatment are moving us closer to a world free of MS. Most people are diagnosed between the ages of 20 and 50, with at least two to three times more women than men being diagnosed with the disease. MS affects more than 2.1 million people worldwide. It is the #1 disabling neurological disease in young to middle-aged adults.About the National MS Society MS stops people from moving. The National MS Society exists to make sure it doesn't. We help each person address the challenges of living with MS. Since its founding in 1946, the Society has allocated more than $761 million to MS research projects around the world. We are people who want to do something about MS NOW. Join the Movement®. Early and ongoing treatment with an FDA-approved therapy can make a difference for people with multiple sclerosis. Learn about your options by talking to your health care professional and contacting the National MS Society at www.nationalMSsociety.org or 1-800-FIGHT-MS (344-4867).Join the Movement is a registered trademark of the National MS Society.