LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Aug 19, 2013) - Nightlife innovators Michael Greco and Steven Kennedy's newly formed Marvel Management and Marketing (M3) have collaborated with David Furnish to open a fashionable addition to Caesars Palace Las Vegas in fall 2013. FIZZ Las Vegas, a 2,750-square-foot champagne lounge and bar, will be the epicenter of chic, celebrating the crossroad between champagne and couture cocktail offerings with art, fashion and design. Positioned between The Colosseum at Caesars Palace and Forum Shops at Caesars, FIZZ Las Vegas will bring a new energy to the main floor of the popular hotel and casino. Featuring a selection of high-end champagnes by the glass and carefully-curated spirits, FIZZ Las Vegas will be the perfect spot for sophisticated socializing or a pre- or post-show cocktail. Working with Furnish and Sir Elton John's personal chef, exquisite choices of caviar, charcuterie and small plates will compliment the beverage selection."FIZZ is an extension of our personal style. Spending so much time in Las Vegas with Elton's performance schedule, we wanted a space that would reflect our personal style and become an extension of the way we entertain at home," said Furnish.Carefully crafted by TAL Studio, the design of the $3.2 million project features a throwback reflection on '70s designer David Hicks with high-end details focused on patterns and texture, resulting in a glam-chic look rich in golds and muted tones with metal accents. Reminiscent of their residence in Los Angeles, the elegant design includes a salon style presentation of photography from Elton and Furnish's personal collection."Caesars Palace has been proud of bringing many firsts to the destination such as Nobu Hotel, celebrity chef restaurants, and now the first of its kind champagne lounge -- FIZZ," said Gary Selesner, Regional President of Caesars Palace. "The opening of FIZZ provides Caesars Palace guests an elevated experience from dining, entertainment and now a contemporary champagne lounge just steps from the Colosseum."Additional details regarding FIZZ Las Vegas will be announced in the coming weeks.ABOUT CAESARS PALACE World-renowned Las Vegas hotel and casino, Caesars Palace features 3,960 hotel guest rooms and suites, including the brand new 181-room Nobu Hotel Caesars Palace and Forbes Star Award-winning The Laurel Collection by Caesars Palace. The resort offers 25 diverse dining options including celebrity chef-branded restaurants by Gordon Ramsay, Bobby Flay and Guy Savoy, the award-winning Bacchanal Buffet, nearly 130,000 square-feet of casino space, a five-acre Garden of the Gods pool oasis and the luxurious Qua Baths & Spa. The Forum Shops at Caesars showcases more than 160 boutiques and restaurants and the 4,300-seat Colosseum spotlights world-class entertainers such as Celine Dion, Elton John, Rod Stewart, Shania Twain and Jerry Seinfeld. Visit www.caesarspalace.com or caesars.thedigitalcenter.com to access media materials.