PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 19, 2013) - HP (
NYSE :
HPQ ) today announced its most powerful thin client solution, the HP t820 Flexible Series Thin Client, to help businesses thrive with outstanding performance, security and manageability.HP also announced support for new NVIDIA® GRID™ graphics processing units (GPUs) for the HP WS460c Generation 8 (Gen8) Graphics Server Blade. Aimed at reducing price per user and boosting performance for graphics in virtualized environments, the HP WS460c -- combined with the HP Multi-GPU Carrier, a graphics adapter card enabling up to eight users per blade -- delivers the most comprehensive blade server graphics portfolio."There is new and growing demand in today's market for quad-core processing and multimedia graphics on thin clients," said Jeff Groudan, marketing director, Thin Clients, HP. "With the HP t820, we've delivered a more advanced thin client solution to give companies the speed and performance required for their most demanding applications."Maximum security, powerful performance, enhanced graphics
The HP t820 Flexible Series Thin Client offers users powerful performance and graphics combined with enterprise-level security, ensuring an organization's sensitive data is secured on the server even if its devices are compromised, lost or stolen.The HP t820 benefits organizations in industries -- such as financial trading, architecture, engineering, and military or government agencies -- that require high-performance computing to run specialty programs.Enhanced features on the HP t820 include:Powerful processing with Intel® Core™ i5 or Intel Pentium®.(1) The HP t820 is eight times faster than the HP t610 Flexible Thin Client and can control large amounts of data and multiple applications at once, allowing employees to increase productivity by viewing information on more than one monitor. Enterprise-level security with fiber-optic networking, Intel® vPro™ technology, BIOS implemented to NIST guidelines and TPM Chipset.(2) Preboot authentication and connections allow users in private industries to securely log on to their protected network. Built-in VGA video port and DisplayPort 1.2 for enhanced functionality. Additional ports give organizations the functionality to transition to new technologies and ensure legacy and future monitor technology compatibility. The HP t820 supports three large monitors out of the box, and with an AMD Radeon HD 7650A MXM graphics card and with one or more optional multistream DisplayPort hubs, it can expand to seven high-definition (HD) monitors. (3,4) Better user experience with HP Velocity. HP Velocity network performance management software, included with the HP t820, automatically adapts to changing network conditions and improves network utilization so users experience fewer disruptions when using real-time communication applications. Multiprotocol support for Microsoft and VMware. The HP t820 is VMware Horizon View certified and RFX certified for Microsoft Windows® Embedded Standard (WES) 7 E operating systems, giving users the flexibility to deploy and manage the virtual desktop solution that best fits their needs.
New virtualized high-performance graphics solutions
HP updated the HP WS460c Gen8 Graphics Server Blade with new NVIDIA GRID GPUs optimized for virtualized environments. As the industry's first bladed technology that enables multiple virtualized graphics users per blade, the HP WS460c Gen8 server with NVIDIA GRID or Multi-GPU Carrier lowers the cost per user while delivering levels of graphics performance previously unavailable for desktop virtualization users. The NVIDIA GRID K1 and K2 GPU adapters also enable multiple media-rich PC or high-end graphics users per blade by providing graphics capability to each virtual machine.Pricing and availability The HP t820 is planned to be available worldwide in November. Pricing is available upon request.The HP WS460c Gen8 Graphics Server Blade with NVIDIA GRID GPUs is planned to be available worldwide this fall. Pricing starts at just under $9,000.(5)The new HP t820 will be demonstrated at VMworld in San Francisco, Aug. 26-29, in Booth No. 1405.About HP HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The world's largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP is available at http://www.hp.com.(1) Multicore is designed to improve performance of certain software products. Not all customers or software applications will necessarily benefit from use of this technology. 64-bit computing on Intel architecture requires a computer system with a processor, chipset, BIOS, operating system, device drivers and applications enabled for Intel 64 architecture. Processors will not operate (including 32-bit operation) without an Intel 64 architecture-enabled BIOS. Performance will vary depending on hardware and software configuration. Intel's numbering is not a measurement of higher performance.
(2) The TPM chipset has the opportunity to be utilized with WES8.
(3) Optional features sold separately or as add-on features.
(4) The t820 Flexible Thin Client is factory equipped to simultaneously support up to 3 monitors utilizing the on-board Intel HD 4600 Graphics card with 1 x VGA and 2 x Display Port connectors. Expansion options include support up to 7 Full HD monitors (1920x 1080), 6 WUXGA monitors (1920x 1200), or 4 WQXGA monitors (2560x 1600). Using 4 or more monitors require a factory-installed AMD Radeon HD 7560A expansion video card, and also requires one or more HP Display Port Multi-Stream Hubs, or Display Port 1.2 monitors with daisy-chain capabilities.
(5) Estimated U.S. street prices. Actual prices may vary.AMD is a trademark of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Intel, Core and Pentium are trademarks of Intel Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Microsoft and Windows are U.S. registered trademarks of Microsoft CorporationThis news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If such risks or uncertainties materialize or such assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations; any statements concerning expected development, performance, market share or competitive performance relating to products and services; any statements regarding anticipated operational and financial results; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing HP's businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP's businesses; risks associated with executing HP's strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third party suppliers and the distribution of HP's products and services effectively; the protection of HP's intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP's international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the execution, timing and results of restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost and the anticipated benefits of implementing those plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2013 and HP's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.© 2013 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.