IRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 19, 2013) - Sage North America announced today that iS5 Communications of Mississauga, Ontario, has made the move to Sage ERP X3. iS5 Communications designs, manufactures, installs and services network routing equipment for use in harsh environments, such as those encountered in the utility, transportation, industrial, military and surveillance industries. While the company is young, its management team is a veteran group of professionals in this field. When iS5 Communications sought scalable, integrated, flexible and powerful ERP software capable of taking the company from startup to success, it zeroed in on one solution, Sage ERP X3.The broad functionality of Sage ERP X3 is an ideal fit for the varied requirements of this dynamic organization. Each product sold by iS5 Communications is custom built to the exacting requirements of each customer, and the product configurator tool in Sage ERP X3 greatly simplifies this task. Sales personnel can walk customers through the various product options and then produce a quote detailing the price and configuration. When the order is approved, the software automatically produces a work order to build the equipment. Sage ERP X3 even offers shipping and manifesting capabilities that enable iS5 to get completed orders out the door and on their way quickly and efficiently."I have used many ERP applications during my career," said Clive Dias, president and CEO of iS5 Communications. "What always plagued these applications was the lack of integration. None of them offered all the tools we needed in a single system. We used other add-on applications to provide the necessary functionality."Dias sought to avoid integration challenges when selecting ERP software for his enterprise. A trusted, long-term business partner recommended Sage ERP X3. With the help of its business partner, iS5 launched the accounting and financial reporting modules of Sage ERP X3 quickly. Currently the team is planning for the deployment of the balance of the solution, including the manufacturing, distribution and CRM components."We went big with Sage ERP X3. We invested in software capable of taking this company far. Our business model is complex, and Sage ERP X3 offers the international capabilities, scalability and advanced manufacturing toolset that we need to grow right now," said Dias.About The Sage Group plc Sage Group plc is a leading global provider of business management software to small and medium sized companies, creating greater freedom for them to succeed. Sage understands how and why each business is unique. We provide products and services that suit varying needs, are a pleasure to use, and are secure and efficient. Formed in 1981, Sage was floated on the London Stock Exchange in 1989 and entered the FTSE 100 in 1999. Sage has over 6 million customers and more than 13,380 employees in 24 countries covering the UK & Ireland, mainland Europe, North America, South Africa, Australia, Asia, and Brazil. For further information please visit: www.sage.comFor more information about Sage in North America, please visit the company website at NA.Sage.com. Follow Sage North America on Facebook, Facebook.com/SageNorthAmerica, and Twitter, Twitter.com/SageNAmerica.©2013 Sage Software, Inc. All rights reserved. Sage, the Sage logos, and the Sage product and service names mentioned herein are registered trademarks or trademarks of Sage Software, Inc. or its affiliated entities. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.