The European Union funded campaign Flavor Your Life, which is dedicated to providing the latest in olive oil news, discusses olive oil production trends, such as Italian olive oil production trends, and predictions for Mediterranean producersBOHEMIA, NY / myprgenie.com /ACCESSWIRE / April 5, 2014 / Flavor Your Life, a European Union funded campaign that is dedicated to providing the latest in olive oil news, discusses current olive oil production trends, such as Italian olive oil production, as well as speculation for future olive oil production in the Mediterranean area.Approximately three quarters of olive oil production is concentrated in the European Union, which recorded a production level of around 2.18 million tons in 2012, slightly lower than 2011. Spain produces approximately 1.35 million tons of olive oil, which is 62% of the olive oil produced in the European Union. With regard to other Mediterranean countries, the most important producer is Tunisia. Tunisian production is expected to rise over 50% from the previous production year. These estimates also foresee increased production in Turkey and Syria. Among the other producers in the Mediterranean, Morocco is showing a decline in production, while Algeria has increased production by 9% compared to 2011. The production of olive oil in Morocco and Algeria is approximately 120 and 55 thousand tons, respectively.In Italy there are about one million olive oil businesses. Olive cultivation is spread throughout Italy, from Trento in the north to Agrigento in the south. Italy has the highest concentration of olive trees for the production of extra virgin olive oil in the European Union.The Flavor Your Life campaign supported by the European Union, Unaprol and the Italian Ministry of Agriculture, is dedicated to providing the latest in industry news and health information about European extra virgin olive oil. Extra virgin olive oil enhances the flavors of your recipes while providing health benefits. Flavor Your Life campaign, the voice of olive oil production quality control, aims to educate consumers so they can make informed decisions when purchasing olive oil.Contact: Scott Darrohn, Takara@fishbat.com, 855-347-4228