Gettry Marcus CPA, P.C., a leading health care consulting and forensic accounting firm, shares the key steps in health care mergersWoodbury, NY / myprgenie.com / ACCESSWIRE / April 05, 2014 / Independent medical practices face the challenge of survival on an ongoing basis. Gettry Marcus CPA, P.C., a leading health care consulting and forensic accounting firm, discusses merger options for independent medical practices. A recent article written by Stuart Kertzner, CPA/ABV, CVA, and Partner-in-Charge of the Gettry Marcus health care group, titled "Medical Group Financial Modeling," helps in guiding practices through mergers and the formation of larger groups."Small and medium sized medical groups are confronted with questions of survival on an ever-increasing basis," Kertzner says in the article. "Health systems are acquiring physician practices, and it is becoming more difficult for smaller practices to compete with these hospital-dominated organizations. So, the options facing many practices today are, 'do we (1) sell out; (2) merge into a larger existing physician owned entity; or (3) take on the challenge of being involved in the creation of a new group?'"The Gettry Marcus health care consulting group assists physicians and medical practices in evaluating their options and helping them to develop long-term strategic plans. The group consists of a team of financial advisors, all of who are CPAs, with a sole focus -- health care. Visit the Gettry Marcus website for the full article.IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: To ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any U.S. federal tax advice contained in this communication (including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed herein.Gettry Marcus CPA, P.C. is a top New York City and Long Island CPA firm with offices in Woodbury, Long Island and New York City. We provide accounting, tax, and consulting services to commercial businesses, high net worth individuals and various industries which include real estate and health care. We have one of the premier and most credentialed business valuation, litigation and forensic accounting groups in the New York Area. Our experience in diverse industries and a highly talented and experienced professional staff gives us the ability to share valuable insights into our clients' businesses, to better understand their goals and problems and to help them attain the vision they have for their company.Gettry Marcus is "Always Looking Deeper" to build value for our clients.Media inquiries: Contact Stacey Ellenthal at 516-364-3390 ext. 247 or via email at Sellenthal@gettrymarcus.comContact: Scott Darrohn, Takara@fishbat.com, 516-364-3390SOURCE: Gettry Marcus CPA, P.C.