Public Company to act as Consultant Advisor for Strategic 90-day Campaign to Raise Funds for Advanced EEG Micro Headset That Enables Thought Control Through Mobile Devices.SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. - (August 29, 2013) Monster Arts, Inc. (APPZ), a leading mobile marketing and app technology innovator focused on mobile advertising consulting, daily deal and coupon marketing, and more, announced today announced today acceptance of a binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Mind Solutions Inc. (VOIS), a leader in the Brain-Computer Interface / Thought Controlled Technology sector, to provide full service consulting services for a 90-day Kickstarter campaign, with a targeted fundraising goal of $50,000.00 with overfunding project milestones up to $250,000. As a mobile software developer and expert in the areas of both mobile marketing and big data analytics, Monster Arts is well positioned to lead this project, which provides funding and strategic support, including marketing and public relations, for the development, launch, and ongoing commercialization of Mind Solution's new innovative thought recognition ear piece device.Monster Arts will provide consulting services calculated to enhance the prospects for a Kickstarter campaign successfully achieving funding milestones and goals. Along with general advisory and project management services, Monster Arts will provide Mind Solutions with a professionally produced video for the fundraising campaign, as well as assistance in building project content, rewards analysis and distribution, assistance acquiring corporate sponsorships, and oversight of the graphic development. In addition, Monster Arts plans to run a parallel social media campaign, which is essential to spreading excitement, awareness and overall publicity about the Kickstarter project virally.The MOU outlines specific duties to be performed by Monster Arts, which will use its expertise and experience in mobile marketing, including all aspects of social networking, as well as in app and software development and other e-commerce-related areas to take this crowdfunding campaign from the initial stages of idea and concept through to execution, deployment and ancillary services support for the campaign."Crowfunding campaigns like this allow early technology adopters an opportunity to 'pre-order' gadgets and feel part of the development process," commented Monster Arts CEO Wayne Irving II. "Mind and thought control technology gadgets are cutting edge, and we see this exciting campaign as being the ultimate perk to offer contributors who are looking to be first in line for experiencing this leap in user interfacing."About Monster Arts: Monster Arts is a leading mobile marketing and app technology innovator, designing a variety of mobile apps for purchase and download by the retail consumer, and assisting business clients with online marketing through its Travel America Visitor Guide, mobile app design services, crowdfunding consulting services, and Daily Deal information management and analytics.More information about Monster Arts can be found by visiting the company's website located at http://www.monsterarts.net/.About Mind Solutions, Inc.: Mind Solutions, Inc. develops software for thought controlled technologies, allowing the user to interact with the computer and other machines through the power of the mind. The technology involves the use of a wireless headset, which detects brainwaves on both the conscious and non-conscious level. This revolutionary neural processing technology makes it possible for computers to interact directly with the human brain. The Company creates medical applications and video games that are controlled by the power of your mind. The Company is in the process of developing an advanced EEG micro headset, which will be compatible with the software applications developed. Prototypes have been received and final designs are being selected. The Company anticipates launching the product by the end of 2013.Safe Harbor Statement: Any statements contained in this press release that relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks associated with the management appointment described in this press release, and other risks identified in the filings by Monster Arts, Inc. (APPZ), with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Further information on risks faced by APPZ are detailed in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, and in its subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. These filings are or will become available on a website maintained by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission athttp://www.sec.gov/. The information contained in this press release is accurate as of the date indicated. Actual results, events or performance may differ materially. Monster Offers does not undertake any obligation to publicly release the any revision to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Included in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements will prove to have been correct. The company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.