NEW YORK, NEW YORK--(Marketwired - May 4, 2014) -
Joe, who was formerly chairman of the Audit Committee of Genoil (GNOLF) (TSX VENTURE:GNO), and has a vast financial background, has come back to Genoil to advise on major project finance in his role as member of the Advisory Board. He has significant bank connections and experience in raising large funds. Joe is also a former director of Lifschultz Industries. During his career, which spans over 40 years, Mr. Fatony has held executive positions in the investment and banking industry.Mr. Fatony was Chairman of the Board and founder of SRF Builders Capital Corp., a New York State mortgage bank.His executive positions in the banking industry include that of Vice President with the Bank of New York for over 20 years. During that time, Mr. Fatony was officer in charge of the Wall Street Private Banking Department. Prior to that, he was officer in charge of the Fifth Avenue Trust Department.Degree in Corporate Law & Finance, while also serving as a Law Clerk for Chief Judge Richard D. Ball in the 54B District Court. In addition to running his own practice, Michael currently serves as Vice President and General Counsel to Genoil Inc. He also assists in managing a large scale securities litigation project between two of the largest corporations in the United States. Michael is admitted to practice in both the State of New York and the State of New Jersey.Genoil is in the process of retaining a major oil engineering project manager with vast refining experience in Russia, the Balkans, Europe. He is also has 30 years experience which includes project finance, managing large numbers of engineers in projects. He also has significant experience in oil trading companies focused in raising huge funds. In addition he is presently reviewing applications for engineers for anticipated Genoil projects.Leslie Vanderpool has also joined Genoil's Advisory Board. She has extensive knowledge covering areas of raising funds. She will be working to assist Genoil in business development, and public relations. She has hosted numerous fundraisers for example Golf Tournaments, Film Series and Art Auctions and other artistic events. She has a strong background in marketing, branding, film production, and sponsorship. In addition to which she has many large contacts in the investment banking and financial world.Story continuesLeslie Vanderpool, Founder and Executive Director of the Bahamas International Film Festival (BIFF) has joined Genoil's advisory board. BIFF is a non-profit organization dedicated to providing the local community and international visitors a diverse panorama of films from all over the world. Vanderpool has been instrumental in every phase of the festival's creation and development. Vanderpool has created unique cultural experiences such as Summer Film In The Square and Theater In The Park throughout Nassau, Bahamas. The most rewarding experience has beenteaching over 600 students in the art of filmmaking, a program called "Make A Film In A Day." Over a period of 6 years Rogers & Cowan has been enlisted as head of PR for the film festival.Vanderpool has a keen eye for quality films and showcased over 700 films from 150 countries.She oversees the volunteer department; organizes first class special events; brings in world leading professionals to conduct Panel Discussions, Master Classes and inviting the world's top Industry Professionals to be jurors. Vanderpool has invited A List Celebrities for Career and Shining Star Tributes.Leslie has studied acting from a young age having enrolled in Purnell School, a performing arts high school in New Jersey. She has various certificates from Lee Strasberg Acting Institute and a certificate in Shakespeare and stage acting from Balliol College, Oxford University, Oxford, England, where her skills were honed with Alan Rickman, Fiona Shaw and many more.Michael Daher was recently appointed General Counsel to Genoil. After receiving a Bachelor's Degree in Philosophy, Politics & Law from SUNY Binghamton University, Michael attended Thomas M. Cooley Law School, where he earned both a Juris Doctor and Master of Laws in Corporate Law & Finance, while also serving as a Law Clerk for Chief Judge Richard D. Ball in the 54B District Court. In addition to running his own practice, Michael currently serves as Vice President and General Counsel to Genoil Inc. He also assists in managing a large scale securities litigation project between two of the largest corporations in the United States. Michael is admitted to practice in both the State of New York and the State of New Jersey.Genoil has been delisted from the TSX exchange for executing private placements below their $.05 pershare requirement. Genoil's stock price is below $.05 and in view of the fact that it is trading in the United States the company had a fiduciary obligation to fund its continuing operations according to United States Law.