BOISE, ID--(Marketwired - Jan 31, 2014) - On January 31, 2014, Syringa Bank was closed by the Idaho Department of Finance. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was then named Receiver. Subsequent to the closure, Sunwest Bank, headquartered in Irvine, CA, acquired substantially all of the deposits and assets of Syringa Bank from the FDIC as Receiver for Syringa Bank.The former Syringa Bank will reopen Monday, February 3, 2014 as part of Sunwest Bank. Representatives from Sunwest Bank will be available at former Syringa Bank branches to answer questions from current and prospective clients. Existing Syringa clients will be able to conduct business as usual, as their money will be available through checks, ATM and debit cards. Loan clients should continue to make their payments to former Syringa Bank offices."We are excited to welcome the valued clients and talented employees of Syringa Bank to our growing family," said Chris Walsh, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunwest Bank. "Sunwest Bank is committed to providing a superior customer experience and we look forward to delivering high-quality, relationship-based community banking products and services to the businesses and residents of Idaho.""For decades, we have operated under a code of values, rooted in fiscal responsibility, that have enabled us to remain strong and stable despite fluctuations in the economic climate," Walsh explained. Actively doing business, and well positioned for growth, Sunwest Bank's loan fundings surpassed $134 million in 2013. Sunwest Bank's net income was $11.8 million, nearly double from 2012. Additionally, Sunwest Bank's leverage and tier 1 risk-based capital ratios, which are key measures of a bank's financial strength, were more than double the amount required to be considered well capitalized on December 31, 2013.Sunwest Bank has been a dedicated partner to the communities they serve for 45 years. "We are excited to expand our footprint and continue the community bank tradition in Idaho," said Chris Walsh. "Sunwest Bank understands what it means to be a relationship-focused community bank and we strive to be a good corporate citizen by giving back to our communities." Over the past three years, Sunwest Bank has invested more than $1.5 million in community and charitable programs. During the same time period, our employees enhanced those contributions by donating over 3,000 volunteer hours.An established community bank, Sunwest has offices in California, Arizona, Washington and now in Idaho. Sunwest Bank offers a wide range of financial products to individuals, professionals, homeowner associations, and small to mid-sized businesses. The Bank's solution-driven, relationship-based approach to banking provides accessibility to decision makers and enhances value through strong partnerships with our clients. For more information, visit www.SunwestBank.com or call (800) 330-9890 to learn more.