For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – March 21, 2013 – Stocks featured in this week’s Zacks Industry Rank analysis include Federal Mogul (FDML) and Visteon Corp (VC).Zacks Industry Rank Analysis is written by John Blank, PhD, Chief Equity Strategist, Zacks.com.Shifting Into OverdriveAs the ice roads of commerce thaw, more people and businesses are hitting the highway with the demand for automotive essentials in tow. Last week, original equipment manufacturing for automotive and trucking was coasting at #48 on the Zack’s Industry Rank list, but this week it found high gear.
Automotive/Trucking Original Equipment now enjoys a Zack’s Industry Rank of #36.
This industry of 31 companies has recently seen 88 positive revisions to annual earnings estimates compared to 38 negative revisions. Positive estimate revisions have been averaging a strong +24%. Of course, downward earnings surprises are present, however, the sector has signaled a turn for the positive and a couple key businesses seem to have the green light.
We’ve also seen this trend reflected in corresponding sectors, including positive movement in Retail/Wholesale Automotive and Trucking, up five on the Zacks Industry Rank this week.
With continued spending, there are important indicators that this demand will drive future positive earnings estimate revisions. Additional favorable analysis of the industry as a whole would reflect this development.
Significant revision of the Zacks Rank within a sector, changing from a Hold to either a Buy or Strong Buy rank is fundamental when looking for advantages. Using this information and knowledge of recent positive estimate activity can provide more insight into the direction of a particular company.Look closely at the following summaries of two recent earnings surprise candidates. Each was selected based on its current Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) and revision from Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) just one week ago.
Your profits could mirror these successes and may be closer than they appear.
Federal Mogul (FDML)
FDML is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). It moved up from Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) just last week. This company reports quarterly earnings on July 25, 2013.
Federal Mogul Corporation is a leading global supplier of powertrain, chassis and safety technologies, serving original equipment manufacturers of automotive, light commercial, heavy-duty, agricultural, marine, rail, off-road and industrial vehicles. Their most recent earnings surprise was +165% for Q1.
Visteon Corp (VC)
VC is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy). It was raised to its #1 rating within the last week from Zacks rank #3 (Hold). It reports earnings on August 8, 2013.
Visteon Corp. operates as an automotive supplier engaged in the design, engineering and manufacturing of climate, electronic, interior and lighting products for vehicle manufacturers. It broke estimates in Q1 with +75% earnings surprise. Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter offers continuous coverage of the industries and the stocks poised to outperform the market. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=2564.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Len Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3:1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros.  In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit From the Pros by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2565.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearchVisit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Zacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Contact: Terry Ruffolo Company: Zacks.com Phone: 312-265-9213 Email: pr@zacks.comVisit: www.Zacks.com Read the analyst report on FDML Read the analyst report on VC Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on FDML,VC