For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – May 21, 2013 – Zacks Equity Research highlights Heartware International (HTWR) as the Bull of the Day and Jive Software (JIVE) as the Bear of the Day. In addition, Zacks Equity Research provides analysis on JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM), American International Group, Inc. (AIG) and Bank of America Corporation (BAC).Full analysis of all these stocks is available at http://at.zacks.com/?id=2678.Here is a synopsis of all five stocks:Bull of the Day: Heartware International (HTWR) Has seen analysts pump their estimates higher, giving love to this medical device company love and not heartache. As a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy), it is the Bull of the Day.Heart failure is a degenerative, terminal disease affecting more than 20 million patients worldwide and causing more than 7.25 million deaths each year. Approximately 1 million patients suffer from Class IV heart failure, the most severe stage of the disease. Heart transplantation is a proven treatment option for Class IV heart failure patients, but a limited number of donor hearts become available each year.HeartWare International Inc. is a global medical device company dedicated to delivering safe, high-performing and transformative therapies that enable patients with heart failure to get back to life. The company’s innovative technologies are creating advances in the miniaturization of Ventricular Assist Devices (VADs) leading to less invasive surgical procedures and increasing the patient population who may be suitable for VAD therapy.Dating back to the December 2012 quarter, Heartware has beaten the Zacks Consensus Estimate in two consecutive quarters. The December 2012 quarter saw the company post a positive earnings surprise of 10.4%. The following quarter saw an even larger surprise of 24.35%. The increases in the beats means that the company is outperforming the increased expectations creating some solid earnings momentum.Bear of the Day:Jive Software (JIVE) isn't jiving with analysts as they see earnings to continue to move lower. As a Zacks Rank #4 (Sell), it is the Bull of the Day.Jive is looking to get businesses use their software to increase collaboration, content movement and enterprise portals / intranets. Jive's mission is to change the way work gets done, but with nearly 1 billion Facebook users, 175M LinkedIn members and about 400 million tweets a day, are they late to the game?Jive Software, Inc. provides a social business software platform to businesses, government agencies, and other enterprises. Its Jive Engage Platform enables collaboration across two principal communities and employees within the enterprise, and customers and partners outside the enterprise. The company's Jive Engage Platform is used as a communications tool and collaborative workspace that supports and enhances knowledge sharing, facilitates communication within and across organizational boundaries, and enables individuals to work together to achieve common business goals.Dating back to the December 2011 quarter, which was the last time that the company posted a positive earnings surprise. Of the five quarters since that time, there have been two meets and 3 negative earnings surprises. Latest Posts on the Zacks Analyst Blog:JPMorgan to Face Dexia Lawsuit AgainThe U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff has revoked his earlier order to dismiss a major portion of the lawsuit filed by Brussels based Dexia N.V./S.A against JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM). The lawsuit accused JPMorgan of deliberately selling risky mortgage-backed securities (:MBS) worth $1.6 billion to Dexia during the housing boom prior to the 2008 financial meltdown.
In justifying the revival of the lawsuit, Rakoff stated that he lacked any jurisdiction under the Edge Act to dismiss the case. Further, citing the ruling of 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York for American International Group, Inc.’s (AIG) lawsuit against Bank of America Corporation (BAC), Rakoff decided to reverse his decision for the above-mentioned lawsuit.
Now, the trial will resurface in the New York state court, where it began in Jan 2012, when Dexia sued JPMorgan along with its affiliates – The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc and Washington Mutual, Inc. According to the subsidiary of Dexia – FSA Asset Management LLC – the accused clearly knew of the risks associated with the mortgage securities. However, JPMorgan allegedly sold massive quantities of these securities to Dexia to reduce its own exposure.
The Dexia lawsuit attracted media attention after a series of emails were discovered suggesting JPMorgan’s sale of massive quantities of these securities, while being aware of the associated risks.
In Apr 2013, Rakoff had allowed Dexia to proceed with only 5 claims, while dismissing nearly 60 claims. This significantly slashed the potential legal settlement to $5.7 million from $774 million.Story continuesGet the full analysis of all these stocks by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2649.About the Bull and Bear of the DayEvery day, the analysts at Zacks Equity Research select two stocks that are likely to outperform (Bull) or underperform (Bear) the markets over the next 3-6 months.About the Analyst BlogUpdated throughout every trading day, the Analyst Blog provides analysis from Zacks Equity Research about the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous analyst coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=7158.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks InvestmentResearch is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=4582.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comRead the analyst report on HTWR Read the analyst report on JIVE Read the analyst report on JPM Read the analyst report on AIG Read the analyst report on BAC Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on HTWR,JIVE,JPM,AIG,BAC