Serge Genetet, Arkadin's EVP and Managing Director APAC, accepts Frost & Sullivan's APAC Conferencing Service Provider of the Year Award at a reception in Singapore. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreSINGAPORE--(Marketwired - Jul 17, 2013) - Arkadin, one of the world's largest and fastest growing Conferencing ServiceProviders, announced today that it received the 2013 Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific ICT Conferencing Service Provider of the Year award. Recognizing outstanding performance by companies in the Enterprise, Telecom, and Service Provider segments of the Information, Communication and Technology (ICT) industry, Arkadin was chosen for the exemplary growth of its products, spanning audio, web and video conferencing and unified communications (UC) technologies."Arkadin has shown a remarkable 25% year-on-year growth in 2012, when its competitors and the general market suffered a slow down," says Jessie Yu, Industry Manager, Asia Pacific ICT Practice for Frost & Sullivan. "Moreover, this growth originated in key countries of Japan, China and India where competition is strong and service differentiation is crucial."According to Ms. Yu, Telco partnerships are a major contributor to growth: "Arkadin has managed to grow with the strength of its Telco partnerships in the region, which are increasingly emerging as a pivotal sales channel. With improved market penetration among large enterprises, Arkadin is now in the big league as a major provider of collaboration services in the Asia Pacific region. It has a strong portfolio of tiered solutions and agile bundling for its proprietary Arkadin Anywhere solution, its Adobe Connect and Cisco WebEx conferencing services, and for its Microsoft Lync Unified Communications offers.""We're honored to be selected for this award which is a testament to the strength of our customer value proposition," says Serge Genetet, Arkadin's EVP and Managing Director APAC. "Asia Pacific is one of Arkadin's fastest growing regions. We're confident the strategies we have in place -- coupled with the dedication and passion of our APAC workforce -- will continue to propel our influence and growth throughout the decade."Arkadin recently announced the opening of a new office in Hong Kong and the relocation of its President and founder, Olivier de Puymorin, to help support surging growth for its products. Delivered as a service, the technologies improve communications efficiency and productivity by enabling instant sharing and collaboration among workers, regardless of geographic locations.The Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific ICT Conferencing Service Provider of the Year award is presented annually at the Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific ICT Awards. Award recipients are judged by an independent panel of ICT thought leaders for their revenue growth, market share gains, product leadership and innovation, customer acquisitions and business strategy. Serge Genetet accepted the award at a ceremony held on Thursday, 17 July 2013 at The St Regis Singapore.About ArkadinFounded in 2001, Arkadin is one of the largest and fastest growing collaboration service providers in the world. With a vision rooted in the belief that progress emerges from people's desire to share, Arkadin offers a complete range of remote audio, web, and video conferencing and Unified Communications solutions. The services are delivered in the SaaS model for fast, scalable deployments and a high ROI. Its global network of 51 operating centers in 31 countries has dedicated local-language support teams to service its 37,000 customers.