Fairfield Inn & Suites Washington, DC/Downtown is proud to be the host hotel for the 69th annual North American Chinese Invitational Volleyball Tournament this Labor Day weekend. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreWASHINGTON, DC--(Marketwired - Jul 7, 2013) - The streets of Washington, DC host everything from parades and concerts to food festivals and farmers markets, and this Labor Day weekend they'll set the stage for the 69th annual North American Chinese Invitational Volleyball Tournament (N.A.C.I.V.T.).Taking place in Chinatown, just steps from this downtown Washington, DC hotel, the tournament features nine-person men's and six-person women's teams as they compete outdoors, on pavement, in venues ranging from parking lots to streets.With the goal of bringing together Chinese communities from the US and Canada, the tournament requires two-thirds of the players on each team to be 100% Chinese; the rest must be of Asian descent. Since its launch in 1944, the tournament now includes about 1,500 players and coaches, and attracts nearly 4,000 daily spectators. Teams come from Boston, Maryland, Chicago, North Carolina, Houston, Montreal, New York City, Philadelphia, San Francisco, San Diego, Toronto and Washington, DC. The tournament rotates between seven cities, and this DC hotel near Chinatown is proud to be a host hotel during this year's event.Just two blocks from the Metro station and set in the heart of Chinatown, this hotel is the perfect choice for checking out the tournament and exploring the city. Explore the Smithsonian's 19 museums, galleries and zoo, or get a government and history lesson with a visit to the US Capitol, White House, Lincoln Memorial and Washington Monument. At the Verizon Center, catch NBA and NHL games, plus shows from the biggest names in music and entertainment.About the Fairfield Inn & Suites Washington, DC/Downtown At the Fairfield Inn & Suites Washington, DC/Downtown, guests are just minutes from everywhere they need to be, whether it's the city's iconic monuments or meetings with government agencies. Located in the heart of Chinatown, this renovated hotel combines style and comfort with convenience and functionality for a stay that's as memorable as the nation's capital. Accommodations at this downtown DC hotel offer space for living and working. Stay productive with a large desk, complimentary Wi-Fi and coffee/tea maker, and unwind with a 32-inch LCD TV, plush bed with pillow-top mattress and room service. Those in town for longer stays or traveling as a family can get more space in one of nine custom studio suites, featuring a diving wall separated living area with pullout sofa, minifridge and microwave. Just two blocks from the Metro, the hotel makes it easy to explore the city's biggest sights including the Smithsonian Museum, Lincoln Memorial, US Capitol, White House and Washington Monument. In town for a business, music or sporting event? Verizon Center, Judiciary Square and the Washington Convention Center are within walking distance. A full business center, complimentary breakfast and fitness center make the Fairfield Inn & Suites Washington, DC/Downtown a top choice with corporate travelers. For a good meal, try this downtown hotel's Irish Channel, offering pub fare and cocktails.