The tech press fell in love with Twitter's new video-sharing app Vine this week. And rightfully so; it's really, really good. A blast to use.On the other hand, a lot of people are jumping the gun, proclaiming Vine a revolution. It isn't.I don't think Vine is a game-changer.  I don't think Vine marks the end of that blogger-created quest for the "Instagram of video." (I don't think such a quest needs to exist). I don't think Vine will be a key component to Twitter's future success. (Other content is).I think Vine is simply a brilliantly executed app that's insanely fun to use, and it makes a great addition to Twitter's portfolio. (In much the same way Instagram makes a great addition to Facebook's ecosystem of apps).It's been two days since launch and I'm already addicted. Vine even made it to my iPhone's home screen, right next to Instagram.A few of my favorite features of the app: It's fast. Videos in your feed start streaming almost immediately as soon as you scroll past them. Uploads are just as snappy.  Twitter integration. If you share a Vine on Twitter, it plays nicely in your followers' Twitter feeds.  You can cram a surprising amount of detailed storytelling into a six-second clip. Spencer Chen is really good at it, and it's really pleasing to watch these on loop.Of course, there are a few things that need improvement. I'd like to see Tumblr integration, a desktop site that lets you view your Vine feed on a laptop or desktop, and an easier way to embed videos without going through Twitter first.But overall, Vine 1.0 is a smash hit, despite some early glitches and a tiff with Facebook.If Vine hadn't been purchased by Twitter last year before the app even launched, you'd be reading a dozen stories right now about how it's the next Instagram and destined to be snapped up by Yahoo –– which is on a hunt for really cool mobile startups –– for a bazillion dollars.But since Twitter, a giant tech company now valued at $9 billion, already owns Vine, the team has the luxury of making an incredible app even more incredible without worrying about what kind of financial return they'll get out of it.I can't wait to see what they come up with.More From Business Insider Twitter Has A Really Cool New Video App For iPhone16 Apps For Your iPhone That Are Better Than The Ones Apple MadeThe Best iPhone 5 Cases We Could Get Our Hands On