KINGSTON, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Jul 13, 2013) -
The Honourable Peter MacKay, Minister of National Defence and Chancellor of the Royal Military College of Canada, is pleased to announce today the appointment of Dr. Harry Kowal, a retired Brigadier-General, as the 13th Principal of the Royal Military College of Canada."I offer my sincere congratulations to Dr. Kowal for his new appointment, continuing a long history of outstanding principals for the Royal Military College of Canada" said Minister MacKay. "Each Principal has led with exceptional distinction and made great strides for the betterment of research and military professionalism."The Principal of the Royal Military College of Canada is accountable for defining the academic policy and frameworks for the College and for the operation of all academic and second language activities of the institution. The Principal also represents the Royal Military College of Canada both nationally and internationally, working to maintain and further promote the College as an accredited university of academic excellence.The Royal Military College of Canada is the nation's only federal degree-granting institution that calls for its leader to be a Governor-in-Council Appointment. This reflects the significant status of this valuable nomination."I also wish to take this opportunity to express on behalf of the Royal Military College of Canada Board of Governors, a very special thank you and best wishes to our departing Principal, Dr. Joel Sokolsky," said Minister MacKay. "With dedication, imagination and great good humour, Dr. Sokolsky has provided critical navigation through demanding years, leaving the College in a position to look forward for a better future"Dr. Kowal has a unique professional and academic background which is perfectly suited to his new role at the College. He graduated from the Royal Military College of Canada in 1984, and went on to become an assistant professor of Mechanical Engineering at the College. Dr. Kowal is also the recipient of three Masters Degrees in Aerospace Engineering, Defence Studies and Strategic Studies.As a Royal Canadian Air Force Aerospace Engineer holding a PhD from the University of Tennessee Space Institute, he has served in a variety of academic, command and staff appointments, including but not limited to Commandant of the School of Aerospace Engineering and Technology at Canadian Forces Base Borden.Prior to his appointment as Principal, he was appointed Director General Military Careers at National Defence Headquarters, in Ottawa.Notes to editor / news director: For Dr. Harry Kowal's full biography, please consult the following link: http://www.cmp-cpm.forces.gc.ca/dsa-dns/sa-ns/ab/sobv-vbos-eng.asp?mAction=View&mBiographyID=832