gipsy danger pacific rim robotWarner Bros. PicturesGuillermo del Toro's "Pacific Rim" debuted to a huge $3.6 million Thursday evening.Box-office analysts are not expecting  Guillermo del Toro's big monster movie "Pacific Rim" to do well in theaters this weekend.Early estimates pegged the movie to debut to a paltry $25-35 million. That wouldn't be good for Warner Bros. since the film cost a reported $185-$190 million to produce.However, after earning $3.6 million at theaters Thursday evening estimates have been pushed up — slightly — to $41 million for the weekend. Still not an impressive number.Instead, many think Adam Sandler's latest poorly reviewed film "Grown Ups 2" will beat out "Pacific Rim." While it may earn a predicted $40 million this weekend — don't be surprised if it falls short — it looks like people are highly underestimating the power of del Toro's flick.Here's why we think the monsters will pack a punch.Ticket sales / The film is already doing great at theaters.Yesterday, "Pacific Rim" accounted for 60% of Fandango's advance ticket sales.We were told Thursday the film was also outpacing Brad Pitt's big-budget "World War Z" at the same point pre-sales cycle.The $3.6 million "Pacific Rim" took in last night is in line with what Pitt's film took in upon its Thursday evening debut.After low box-office estimates, that film went on to earn $66.4 million opening weekend.What's bringing people out to see the monster flick? According to a Fandango survey of more than 1,000 "Pacific Rim" ticket buyers most — 86% —are heading out because of positive online and mobile buzz.Fans of director Guillermo del Toro are flocking to see the film as well, with 64% saying they were fans.As of today, "Pacific Rim" still held 31% of daily ticket sales on Fandango. However, "Despicable Me 2" and "Grown Ups 2" both saw 30% and 28% respectively.Great reviews.After early poor press, the film is currently sitting at 73% on film site Rotten Tomatoes.Story continuesWord of mouth should help this film out. While Sandler's sequel is currently poised to bring in $40 million — no doubt because that's what the first film opened to back in 2010 — the actor hasn't had a winning streak as of late at theaters.His last two films, "That's My Boy" and "Jack and Jill," opened to $13.5 million and $25 million respectively. It wouldn't be a surprise if this film came nowhere near the $40 million mark.This is the family to bring the kids to see.Though del Toro's monster movie has a PG-13 rating, it doesn't have anywhere near as much gruesome violence as Disney's "The Lone Ranger."In fact, the film offers a group of positive role models  less grim than some of the D.C. and Marvel superheroes we've seen so far this year at theaters.A nostalgic feel of anime characters brings thoughts of "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers" to mind. And that's a good thing.More From Business Insider These 4 Charts Show How Badly 'The Lone Ranger' Bombed At Theaters'Despicable Me 2' Zaps Away Disney's 'Lone Ranger' Bomb—Here's Your Box-Office Roundup'Despicable Me 2' Had One Of The Best Opening Weekends For An Animated Film