IRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 12, 2013) - Last year, Boot Barn®, America's largest western and work wear retailer, acquired RCC® Western Stores, including three stores in Iowa. Over the past months, the company has increased the depth and breadth of inventory, refreshed the stores visually and completed the transition from the RCC® name to Boot Barn®. To recognize the rebrand, Boot Barn® has scheduled a Big Sale and Celebration to begin July 26 at 10am and continue through July 28 at all three stores located in Davenport, Sioux City and West Des Moines.As the country's largest western and work wear store, Boot Barn® offers customers the best selection of western and work boots, with almost 9,000 pairs available in Iowa. In addition to boots, Boot Barn® stocks the largest selection of western and work jeans, shirts, hats, outerwear, protective work wear, belts, and accessories from trusted brands including Wrangler, Ariat, Justin, Carhartt, Timberland PRO, Levi's, Resistol, Wolverine, Cinch, Dan Post, Corral and Miss Me. The company is also known for superior customer service with trained Fit Experts to help customers find the right size and style."We know people like having a large selection to choose from, especially when it comes to western and work boots. And because what's important to our customers is important to us, we give them the largest variety from trusted best-sellers to the latest fashions for summer," said Amy Inabinet, Director of Marketing, Boot Barn®. "Our customers also appreciate value. That's why we have a lowest price guarantee and Boot Barn® Rewards where they can earn points towards free merchandise."To introduce customers to all Boot Barn® has to offer, the company will be holding a Big Sale and Celebration July 26 - 28 featuring special savings like $20 off all regularly priced boots over $100, $5 off all jeans and shirts and 20% off all Carhartt apparel. As part of the festivities, each store will have a Prize Wheel, where customers can spin to win a $100 Boot Barn® gift card. And each day, one lucky customer at each store will win the Boot-A-Day Giveaway and take home a free pair of boots (details available in-store).Boot Barn® has been outfitting the West since 1978 and is America's largest western and work wear retailer. With the opening of the company's newest store in Dickinson, North Dakota, Boot Barn® has 150 stores from coast to coast and online shopping via their mobile-friendly website. Boot Barn® is the official western retailer of the PRCA and NFR, and supports over 500 rodeos and western events every year. For more information, call 888-Boot-Barn or visit www.bootbarn.com.