MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Jan 23, 2014) - Appcelerator®, the leading mobile enterprise platform company, today announced the winners of its 2013 Enterprise Mobility Awards. The awards celebrate companies that are leading examples of mobile innovation in the enterprise, using Appcelerator's solutions to stay ahead of the curve.In categories covering mobile ROI, innovation, user experience, time to market and much more, Appcelerator awarded ten mobile enterprise innovators. These winners demonstrated a deep understanding of enterprise mobility and have leveraged Appcelerator's solutions to lead the way into the next generation mobile enterprise."Mobile is transforming businesses at unprecedented speed, and today we are honoring some stellar examples of mobile enterprise innovation," said Jeff Haynie, CEO of Appcelerator. "These remarkable success stories of enterprise mobility best practices and leadership make us truly proud of the work we do here each day at Appcelerator. We congratulate and celebrate the accomplishments of the winners as well as our entire community of mobile innovators."Winners of the 2013 Appcelerator Enterprise Mobility Awards include: Best Mobile Enterprise Innovator: Sambro International Best B2E Mobile Enterprise App: LivelyMeeting Best Enterprise MBaaS Implementation: Crosscut Usa Best Cross-platform, Native Development: Colton Arabsky Most Killer Mobile Enterprise ROI: Lojack Best Use Of Enterprise APIs: Roesner Pty Best Enterprise-Driven User Experience: Airline In The Global top 10 Fastest Time To Market: Homes.com Best Industry-Leading Mobile Strategy: Transamerica Most Developer Hours Saved: Automaker In The Global Top TenAbout Appcelerator Mobile apps are fast replacing web applications as the way we buy, share, search, learn and collaborate. Appcelerator® helps companies solve for this new mobile reality: delivering native cross-platform apps at the speed of web, mobilizing any data source, and driving success with real-time analytics -- all from an open, cloud-based platform. With the Appcelerator Platform, companies can eliminate point tools to scale mobile across the enterprise, drive innovation by unlocking backend data sources for new app capabilities, and measure the overall usage and success of the entire mobile app portfolio. Appcelerator also provides an award-winning open source mobile development environment, Titanium™. With over 65,000 mobile apps deployed on over 195 million devices, Appcelerator's solutions are backed by the world's largest mobile ecosystem, including more than 545,000 mobile developers and hundreds of ISVs and strategic partners, among them Accenture, Cognizant and CSC. More than 70% of Fortune 100 enterprises count on Appcelerator for their mobile success. To learn more, visit www.appcelerator.com