Canadian_Dollar_To_Consolidate_Ahead_of_GDP_Report_body_Picture_1.png, Canadian Dollar To Consolidate Ahead of GDP ReportMoreCanadian Dollar To Consolidate Ahead of GDP ReportFundamental Forecast for Canadian Dollar: Neutral USD/CAD Pullback May Yield Long Entry
US New Home Sales Rose to 417K; USDCAD Mixed
Canadian Dollar Gains after March CPI Slows down The Canadian dollar strengthened this week against its U.S. counterpart on an improved economic outlook in the U.K. and U.S. Britain managed to avoid a triple-dip recession, recording a positive growth rate in the first quarter. Meanwhile, the U.S. jobless claims report came out better than expected as first-quarter GDP grew at a moderate rate, further helping to push the loonie higher. Also, Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rebounded, and hit its highest level in two weeks. Looking forward, we may see the Canadian dollar consolidate and build a short-term base before making another major move to the upside. Canada’s February Gross Domestic Product highlights the biggest event risk for the week ahead. According to a Bloomberg News survey, economists have called for a consensus estimate of 0.2 percent growth in GDP, the same pace as in the previous month. In his last testimony before parliament, Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney said that “Canada’s economy is strong but still faces risks.” Furthermore, signs of improvement in the domestic economy have materialized recently, with positive data in the manufacturing and sales sectors. At the same time, the latest unemployment rate report indicates that the recovery in the labor market remains slow. As a result, uncertainties in Canadian fundamentals could lead to a disappointing GDP report, potentially dragging down the loonieInflation within Canada has remained low in recent months, but is expected to gradually rise to the target level of 2 percent by mid-2015, when the economy is expected to return to full capacity. Although the Bank of Canada chose to hold its benchmark interest rate at 1.0 percent, the continual threat of record-rising household indebtedness could cause the central bank to hike interest rates in order to make borrowing more difficult and expensive. However, Governor Carney softened his tone on such a rate increase after growth unexpectedly stalled. The central bank cut its 2013 growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 2.0 percent. In addition, the IMF’s latest report suggested that Canada should refrain from tightening its monetary policy until its economy improves. In order to get a clue on the timing of interest rate move, investors will want to keep a close eye on three factors: economic growth, personal debt, and aspects of the housing market. With rates currently as low as they are, the Canadian dollar has less upward support.-RMNew to FX Trading? Watch this VideoDailyFX provides forex news and technical analysis on the trends that influence the global currency markets.Learn forex trading with a free practice account and trading charts from FXCM.