LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - Alkame Water announced today its acquisition by Pinacle Enterprise Inc. (
OTCBB :
PINS ) and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the technology and health holding company. Upon this merger, Alkame Water enters into the *$50 billion dollar worldwide consumer bottled water sector with its alkaline, antioxidant and oxygenated water. Alkame's water comes from patented technology and affords consumers unparalleled health and vitality and an eco-friendly bottle choice. (*source: StatisticBrain.com 2012.)"I am overjoyed to bring our technologically advanced water to market, aiding health and vitality to consumers across the nation," explains Alkame CEO Robert Eakle.100% Recyclable & BPA Free Alkame Water's health-minded mission is further demonstrated in its packaging, which uses BPA Free plastics that are 100% recyclable. "You can't be in this business without thinking about the end life of the bottle and its effect on the environment and where it's going to end up once it's empty," Robert Eakle, CEO Alkame Water. Alkame's BPA-Free bottles address the growing issue of Bisphenol A (BPA) leaching from plastic bottles into the drinking water, as well as it being made with 100% recyclable material. Alkame wants to promote a healthy planet by addressing the growing concerns of consumers worldwide.About Alkame Water, Inc.: Alkame Water, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinacle Enterprise Inc., is an innovative technology and health company that distributes bottled water with a patented technology and patented formula that alters the molecular structure of water, producing a combination of characteristics that are unprecedented in the beverage industry. Its patented technology restructures the water allowing for ultra-hydration, which improves health and vitality with its alkaline, antioxidant and oxygenated water. Health and eco-conscious people of all ages and walks from pro-athletes, actors and artists to everyday people and children reap the benefits of our unique water -- down to its 100% recyclable eco-friendly packaging. Alkame holds distributorship rights to market and sell bottled water in the United States, Canada and Mexico. For more information, visit www.alkamewater.com.About Pinacle Enterprise, Inc.: Pinacle Enterprise Inc. (
OTCBB :
PINS ) was formerly a development stage company engaged in the business of architectural design, architectural animation, 3D modeling as well as Computer-Aided Design (CAD) drafting and conversion services. On June 25, 2013, Pinacle changed direction and entered into a merger agreement with Alkame Water, whereby it assumed the business operations of Alkame Water, its wholly owned subsidiary.This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. The statements reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events that involve risks and uncertainties. Among others, these risks include the failure to meet schedule or performance requirements of the Company's contracts, the Company's liquidity position, the Company's ability to obtain new contracts, the emergence of competitors with greater financial resources and the impact of competitive pricing. In the light of these uncertainties, the forward-looking events referred to in this release might not occur.