PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Jun 27, 2013) - Cloudera, the leader in enterprise analytic data management powered by Apache Hadoop™, today announced the release of a new connector based on Apache Sqoop. The Cloudera Connector Powered by Teradata is designed to seamlessly and efficiently transfer large volumes of data. Working in collaboration to develop, test and bring the connector to market, the two companies are ensuring joint customer organizations can achieve greater business value from their Cloudera and Teradata investments.Based on Sqoop technology, which facilitates fast data import from SQL databases into a Hadoop cluster, Cloudera Connector Powered by Teradata further optimizes performance by leveraging technology provided by Teradata. Additionally, the connector has been tested jointly to ensure interoperability between the platforms, with product and engineering teams from both companies collaborating together to enhance integration and drive mutual customer success."Like many other long-time Teradata customers, we're deploying Hadoop to complement our Teradata environment because it offers a very economical option for long-term, petascale data management," said Ravi Hubbly, senior principal architect at Lockheed Martin. "If we can give our SQL and Teradata users access to the data in Hadoop through a high-speed Teradata-Hadoop connector, it will expand the usability of our Hadoop platform and allow our Teradata users to leverage the economic advantages Hadoop offers.""As data continues to grow at unprecedented speed and organizations need to access and analyze the vast amounts of data held within their data warehouse and Hadoop platform, enterprises expect to have seamless access to the data, more quickly and efficiently," said Charles Zedlewski, vice president, Products, Cloudera. "In partnering with Teradata to bring Cloudera Connector Powered by Teradata to market, Cloudera is able to help companies complement their investment in data warehouses by providing flexibility to move data to and from Hadoop, leveraging the benefits both platforms have to offer." Additional informationCloudera Connector Powered by Teradata is now available for free download and support is available for Cloudera Enterprise customers. About Cloudera Founded in 2008, Cloudera pioneered the business case for Hadoop with CDH, the world's most comprehensive, thoroughly tested and widely deployed 100% open source distribution of Apache Hadoop in both commercial and non-commercial environments. Now, the company is redefining data management with its Platform for Big Data, Cloudera Enterprise, empowering enterprises to Ask Bigger Questions™ and gain rich, actionable insights from all their data, to quickly and easily derive real business value that translates into competitive advantage. As the top contributor to the Apache open source community and leading educator of data professionals with the broadest array of Hadoop training and certification programs, Cloudera also offers comprehensive consulting services. Over 600 partners across hardware, software and services have teamed with Cloudera to help meet organizations big data goals. With tens of thousands of nodes under management and hundreds of customers across diverse markets, Cloudera is the category leader that has set the standard for Hadoop in the enterprise. www.cloudera.comConnect with Cloudera Read our blog: http://www.cloudera.com/blog/ Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/cloudera Visit us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/cloudera
http://www.facebook.com/cloudera