MADRID, SPAIN--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - GSX Solutions [www.gsx.com] -- the global leader in proactive, consolidated monitoring and reporting of enterprise collaboration environments, including Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft SharePoint, BlackBerry Enterprise Server (BES) and IBM Notes -- today announced a strategic partnership with Activalia to represent GSX Solutions in the Spanish and Portuguese markets and deliver its first-level technical support. The two companies are jointly exhibiting GSX Solutions for Microsoft in booth No. 34 at TechEd Europe 2013 in Madrid, Spain, June 25 to 28."We are very excited by this opportunity to market the GSX products and services in Spain and Portugal," said Activalia chief executive officer Manuel Dionisio. "GSX Solutions has proven its technology with more than 600 customers around the world, and this agreement enables us to offer customers an agentless solution for the management and monitoring of common collaboration environments, including Microsoft Exchange and SharePoint.""Spain and Portugal are major markets for GSX solutions, and we are delighted to partner with Activalia to fully realize its potential opportunities," said Antoine Leboyer, CEO of GSX. "Activalia specializes in helping companies to optimize their operations and reduce support costs, an especially critical role in times of economic constraint."On display at TechEd Europe, June 25 to 28 Activalia and GSX will jointly showcase the latest GSX Monitor & Analyzer support for Microsoft's SharePoint and Exchange environments in booth No. 34 at TechEd Europe 2013 in Madrid, Spain, June 25 to 28. For more on GSX Solutions and partner opportunities, please visit gsx.com.About GSX Solutions GSX Solutions is the global leader in proactive, consolidated monitoring, analysis, and management of enterprise collaboration and messaging environments, including Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint and BlackBerry Enterprise Server, Lotus Domino, as well as LDAP and SMTP ports, and any URL. GSX Solutions is Microsoft Systems Center Alliance Partner, Microsoft Silver Partner and a BlackBerry Alliance Elite Partner, providing automated server maintenance for Domino and Windows-based servers. Monitoring millions of mailboxes for over 600 global enterprises, GSX is headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, with R&D in Nice, France, and offices in the UK and the US. For more information, please visit www.gsx.com.About Activalia Activalia was founded in 1998 to provide companies with the best solutions for optimizing their Information Systems and reducing operational and support costs. The company focuses on Software Asset Management, Contracts Management, IT Optimization of Data Processing Centers, and Application Performance Management.All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their registered owners.