Click here for high-resolution versionMoreTAIPEI, TAIWAN--(Marketwired - Jun 27, 2013) - MiTAC International Corp. (MiTAC), a leading ICT manufacturing company, is pleased to announce its new range of 64-Bit ARMv8 processor-based servers. Working alongside ARM, and AppliedMicro (
NASDAQ :
AMCC ), this new server platform, 7 star server system, is able to provide peak performance without sacrificing power efficiency and is optimized for today's emerging class of cloud-based server applications.MiTAC President, Mr. Billy Ho, said, "MiTAC has rich experience in the server development for many years. We have expanded our cloud services business roadmap to include ARM processor-based servers in 2012, and launched this new ARMv8 64bit server platform this year, showing MiTAC's commitment to research and develop the ARM processor-based server business.""ARM partners such as MiTAC are developing highly integrated, efficient solutions that are transforming the industry's solutions for data centers today," said Ian Drew, chief marketing officer and executive vice president, ARM. "ARM"s v8 architecture enables ecosystem partners to extend their offerings beyond 32-bit scale-out servers to 64-bit servers. This will give the industry more choice and enable a move away from the one size fits all approach that has existed in the marketplace.""MiTAC and AppliedMicro enjoy a close working partnership," said Michael Major, AppliedMicro's Vice President of Corporate Marketing. "AppliedMicro selected MiTAC to manufacture our X-C1 Server Development Platform featuring X-GeneTM, the world's first ARM 64-bit server on a chip silicon solution. Customers seeking high-density microserver solutions based on X-Gene will be excited to see MiTAC's demonstration of the 7-Star server system."Built with the ARMv8 compliant 64-bit eight-core X-Gene processor from Applied Micro Circuits Corp., the new MiTAC 7-Star server system has been developed to meet the differing workloads associated with today's IT environment; combining higher densities and lower power into a platform that can deliver expandability, scalability, serviceability and management, the system delivers a valuable TCO proposition for large and small scale private or public cloud deployments for applications like web browsing, social media and networking, etc.Visit MiTAC 7-Star System in Computex 2013During Computex 2013, the MiTAC 7-Star system will be on display in the ARM Holdings demo suite at The Grand Hyatt Taipei Hotel Room # 1034.About MiTACA leader in the global ICT industry, MiTAC International Corp. has evolved into a multinational organization offering R&D, design, manufacturing, assembly, marketing and solutions covering the full range of electronics manufacturing services (EMS). These include joint development management and manufacturing (JDM), original design manufacturing (ODM), original equipment manufacturing (OEM) and original product manufacturing (OPM).To meet the demands of today's 'cloud,' MiTAC has developed a comprehensive range of cloud services and cloud computing products with a focus on enterprise and terminal products, as well as smart handheld devices. With its unmatched global experience and expertise, MiTAC is equipped to anticipate consumer needs and analyze industrial megatrends, while providing customers with multifaceted integrated services and organizational flexibility. In this way, MiTAC creates the most appropriate electronics products and services for its customers and evolving markets. Website: www.mitac.com