RAUFOSS, NORWAY--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - As of Tuesday 25 June the US Government has approved the take-over of Pocal Industries, Inc. of PA, USA, by the Nammo Group. The completion of the acquisition signed in March, was subject to the approval by US Government.Acquiring Pocal Industries is an important element for Nammo to expand its footprint and capacity within the ammunition business in the US."We feel that this acquisition will add stability to our current workload as well as increasing the opportunities for future growth", says Vince Fedele, President of Pocal Industries, Inc.Pocal Industries, Inc. will change its name to Nammo Pocal Inc."The synergy and competence between Nammo and Nammo Pocal within mortar training and service ammunition as well as the strength of a US located advanced machining capability will definitely strengthen Nammo's presence in the US.", says Edgar Fossheim, President & CEO of the Nammo Group. He emphasizes that the new unit in Nammo will continue to be an excellent supplier to the US Government as well as developing the company into an international market arena in a long term perspective.About PocalPocal Industries Inc, Pennsylvania, has over 30 years of background in US ammunition business specializing in short range and full range practice mortar ammunition, ignition cartridges and fuzes. Pocal Industries has machining operations in Scranton, PA, and assembly operations in Moscow, PA. The company has 65 employees and an annual turnover of approx. 20 MUSD.About NammoHeadquartered in Norway, the Nammo Group is a technology driven aerospace and defense group specializing in high-end products. The core business is development, production and sales of military and sports ammunition, shoulder fired weapon systems, rocket motors for military and space applications and global services for environmentally friendly demilitarization. Nammo has 2.000 employees and is present in 8 countries with a total of 18 production Sites. Please visit www.nammo.com for further information.Story continuesThis announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients. The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: Nammo AS via Thomson Reuters ONE[HUG#1712564]