Alfredo M. Gapuz, Jr., DMD - Dentist in Orlando Click here for high-resolution versionMoreORLANDO, FL--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - In an effort to provide his patients with the best possible dental experience, Orlando cosmetic dentist Dr. Alfredo M. Gapuz, Jr. uses a CAD/CAM E4D machine for same-day restorations. This innovative piece of equipment allows Dr. Gapuz to take 3-dimensional digital images of the patient's bite, as well as the tooth or teeth in need of inlays, onlays, or crowns. In regard to his experience with the technology, he says he has noticed that his patients much prefer the digital images to the conventional "gooey" dental impression methods.Dr. Gapuz has been using the technology for the past year and notes that he has seen many benefits. "We are able to take a clean, fast digital scan of the patient's mouth in a few minutes and create a custom restoration on the screen in front of them," he says. The patient is able to provide input, which helps Dr. Gapuz make any necessary adjustments prior to having the restoration created in the office by a milling machine. The machine is able to create one crown in approximately 15-20 minutes, meaning that most patients are able to achieve final results within one visit.Traditional methods for creating dental restorations such as crowns requires dentists to take a mold of the patient's mouth, and the restorations are created off-site in a laboratory. The Orlando dentist explains it usually takes about two weeks to receive the completed restorations from the lab, and then the patient must return to have them placed. He says the CAD/CAM E4D technology allows for better patient comfort and convenience by eliminating a second office visit and saving the patient time.Dr. Gapuz notes that replacing conventional impression methods allows his patients to have a more comfortable experience. He adds that the ability to create permanent restorations and temporary "trial" porcelain veneers in his own office is an incredible advantage for his Orlando dental practice: "I am excited to bring this technology to my patients, and I am pleased to offer same-day crowns and fillings in order to provide them with a more comprehensive and convenient experience."About Alfredo M. Gapuz, Jr., DMDDr. Alfredo M. Gapuz, Jr. is highly trained in restorative and cosmetic dentistry techniques. He holds a Doctor of Dental Medicine degree, and consistently maintains and improves his knowledge through continued education and attending professional seminars. Through his continued education, he has built upon his techniques and expertise in restorative dentistry, including a course at Harvard's School of Dental Medicine in 2010 where he learned all aspects of dental implant procedures -- from treatment planning to clinical implementation. Dr. Gapuz is a member of several prestigious organizations, including the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry, the International Congress of Oral Implantology, and the Academy of General Dentistry. At his Orlando-based dental practice, he offers general, cosmetic, and restorative treatments, including porcelain veneers, Invisalign®, teeth whitening, and more. Dr. Gapuz is available for interview upon request.