Louis P. Bucky, MD, FACS - Plastic Surgeon in Philadelphia Click here for high-resolution versionMorePHILADELPHIA, PA--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - Dr. Louis P. Bucky is a board-certified plastic surgeon in Philadelphia who is heavily invested in his own education as a medical professional as well as sharing his knowledge with his peers in the field. The National Cosmetic Network recently filmed Dr. Bucky performing a live surgical procedure for educational purposes and Dr. Bucky has co-authored over 100 publications in industry journals for his research in melanoma, breast reconstruction, and fat transplantation.In a recent blog post titled "Philadelphia Plastic Surgeon on Innovations at ASAPS 2013," Dr. Bucky discusses this year's Aesthetic Meeting hosted by the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery (ASAPS). The purpose of the ASAPS's annual Aesthetic Meeting is to provide a forum for plastic surgeons and medical professionals in the field to share their knowledge and experience with the latest techniques and advancements in technology. Since the field of plastic surgery is constantly changing, Dr. Bucky feels that participation in these types of educational forums is extremely important for surgeons that wish to remain at the forefront of innovation. Dr. Bucky says: "The important thing for us to remember is that these procedures, while important at the time, often get replaced with a better approach, and for good reason. So as we focus on the newest procedures and why those have proven successful, we also returned to procedures of similar impact from the past, and discussed why we no longer perform them."One particular procedure that has changed greatly due to new developments in technology and technique is breast augmentation. Breast augmentation is now being performed with fat transfers to enhance the final shape of the breast in conjunction with an implant. In a blog post titled "Workshop on Improved Breast Augmentation with Fat Transfers," Dr. Bucky discusses a Breast Composite Workshop he participated in just before the 2013 ASAPS Aesthetic Meeting. The workshop, which involved leading plastic surgeons from around the world, covered recent advances in combining fat grafting with the implant process rather than focusing on one breast augmentation method or the other.According to Dr. Bucky, the goal of such workshops is to continue to provide his Philadelphia plastic surgery patients with custom-tailored breast augmentation procedures that take each individual's unique body into account. As with all of his cosmetic procedures, Dr. Bucky strives to create looks that achieve his patient's aesthetic goals while providing natural-looking, long-lasting results.About Louis P. Bucky, MD, FACSDr. Louis Bucky earned his medical degree from Harvard Medical School. After completing his general and plastic surgery residencies at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, MA, Dr. Bucky continued on to earn regional and national honors in cosmetic and reconstructive plastic surgery in fellowship programs at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City and Craniofacial Surgery at Miami Children's Hospital. A board-certified plastic surgeon, he currently serves as a Clinical Professor of Surgery in the Division of Plastic Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and the Chief of Plastic Surgery at Pennsylvania Hospital. Dr. Bucky is available for interview upon request.