LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - Startup Debut (www.startupdebut.com), the events division of social media marketing firm SocialRadius (www.socialradius.com), will hold its largest-ever media showcase, Startup Debut at CES® on Sunday, January 5, from 7-10 p.m.Startup Debut's flagship event of the year takes place at the very beginning of the Consumer Electronics Show® and will once again take place at from 7-10 pm at Cili Restaurant, 5160 Las Vegas Boulevard South, a large events facility on the Bali Hai Golf Course, two blocks south of Mandalay Bay, where Sunday's primary CES media activities will be taking place. Startup Debut will be able to accommodate more than 100 exhibitors and 1,000 media.The event is limited to exhibitors and to registered media and bloggers at the International Consumer Electronics Show® (CES), who must additionally register at cespress@socialradius.com to attend Startup Debut. Media will be shuttled from Mandalay Bay and back throughout this event.This will be the second year that Startup Debut has held a crowdfunding pavilion, and its first year to hold a dedicated pavilion for displaying innovation in Bitcoin and cryptocurrency startups. Startup Debut founder Michael Terpin is also the co-founder of BitAngels (www.bitangels.com), the first angel network to focus on digital currency investments.About Startup Debut. Startup Debut has been serving the needs of innovative digital and startup companies and the media since January, 2010, when it first debuted at the Consumer Electronics Show. It has now grown to five annual shows, connecting thousands of media with hundreds of early-stage startups and innovators. About SocialRadius. One of the very first social media marketing agencies, SocialRadius has established itself as one of the world's premier boutique firms, serving an array of corporate clients and startup companies globally. The agency, created in 2006 by Marketwire founder Michael Terpin, is focused on blogger outreach, content creation, social networks and platforms, as well as full-service hybrid PR campaigns. SocialRadius is headquartered in Las Vegas, with offices in Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco. For information on exhibiting at the event, please contact Kristine Pfeiffer, Kristine@socialradius.com, 646-765-1108.Disclaimer: Consumer Electronics Show", "CES," "CES®" and "International CES®" are registered trademarks of the Consumer Electronics Association. Startup Debut at CES 2013 is not affiliated with or endorsed by CES or the Consumer Electronics Association.