LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jun 28, 2013) - Startup Debut (www.startupdebut.com), a leading media showcase company owned by BitAngels (www.bitangels.co) co-founder Michael Terpin, will hold the first-ever media showcase events for Bitcoin and digital currency companies at the 2014 Consumer Electronics Show® in Las Vegas and at the 2014 South by Southwest® festival in Austin, Texas.The first and largest event will be at the start of CES® on Sunday, January 5, 2014, from 7-10 pm at Cili Restaurant, 5160 Las Vegas Boulevard South, a large events facility on the Bali Hai Golf Course, two blocks south of Mandalay Bay, where Sunday's primary CES media activities will be taking place. Startup Debut will be able to accommodate more than 100 exhibitors and 1,000 media, with up to two dozen of the companies expected to be involved in the Bitcoin space.Startup Debut will hold a second media event for startups at the 2014 South by Southwest (SXSW®) Interactive festival on Sunday, March 9, at Flemings Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar, 320 E. 2nd St., Austin, from 5-9 pm. This showcase can accommodate up to 50 exhibitors and 500 media. Both events are expected to co-locate with Internet personality and video blogger Sarah Austin's "Bubble Tank" startup competition for brands, which will immediately precede both events and incorporate a filmed competition with prizes and tech/brand/celebrity judges.Terpin will be also speaking on Bitcoins and first amendment rights at the Inside Bitcoins (http://www.mediabistro.com/insidebitcoins/) conference in New York on July 30.About Startup Debut. Startup Debut has been serving the needs of innovative digital and startup companies and the media since January, 2010, when it first debuted at the Consumer Electronics Show. It has now grown to five annual shows, connecting thousands of media with hundreds of early-stage startups and innovators. About SocialRadius. One of the very first social media marketing agencies, SocialRadius has established itself as one of the world's premier boutique firms, serving an array of corporate clients and startup companies globally. The agency, created in 2006 by Marketwire founder Michael Terpin, is focused on blogger outreach, content creation, social networks and platforms, as well as full-service hybrid PR campaigns. SocialRadius is headquartered in Las Vegas, with offices in Los Angeles, New York and San Francisco. For information on exhibiting at the event, please contact Kristine Pfeiffer, Kristine@socialradius.com, 646-765-1108.Disclaimer: "Consumer Electronics Show", "CES," "CES®" and "International CES®" are registered trademarks of the Consumer Electronics Association. South by Southwest and SXSW are trademarks of SXSW, Inc. Startup Debut is not affiliated with or endorsed by CES or the Consumer Electronics Association. Startup Debut is not associated with SXSW.