AXA Europe Small CapHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMore...YAHOO_FINANCESearchSign inMailSign in to view your mailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)AXA Europe Small CapMathieu Caquineau, CFA (mathieu.caquineau@morningstar.com),Mathieu Caquineau, CFA (mathieu.caquineau@morningstar.com),Karen Andersen, CFA (karen.andersen@morningstar.com),Jeffrey Stafford, CFA (jeffrey.stafford@morningstar.com),Julie Utterback, CFA (julie.utterback@morningstar.com),Nick Watson (nick.watson@morningstar.com),Michael Schramm (michael.schramm@morningstar.com),Susan Dziubinski (susan.dziubinski@morningstar.com),Holly Black (holly.black@morningstar.com),Ivan Su (ruzhe.su@morningstar.com)MorningstarJanuary 6, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareen-GB The fund manager has a lengthy experience in the small/mid-cap space. Isabelle de Gavoty joined AXA IM in 1998, initially as a small-cap analyst and later becoming portfolio manager. After a brief one-year stint at a competitor, she returned to AXA IM in November 2008. We think she is a talented fund manager with a thorough knowledge of the European small/mid-cap universe. She is also personally invested in the fund, which is a good way of aligning her interests with investors'.Workload has however long been a factor adversely impacting our opinion. On the one hand, she progressively reduced her portfolio management activities outside of this strategy by giving up two French equity funds in 2015 (AXA France Opportunités) and 2019 (AXA France Actions) and removing herself as back up manager of a micro-cap fund. On the other hand, she has large managerial responsibilities as Head of a Europe small-cap team of four and was nominated Head of AXA Framlington France (the firm's equity unit) in April 2019, managing four other investment professionals. The cast directly supporting this fund has seen some turnover in the past though it has been stable since 2015. It now comprises four small-cap managers/analyst, with 25, 17, 5, and 4 years of experience, respectively. With de Gavoty's lengthy experience, and the team around her stabilizing, we think the strategy merits an Above Average People rating.The fund usually settles in the growth column of the style box. Given its growth-at-a-reasonable price approach, the fund usually sits in the growth column of the Morningstar Style Box. The manager has gradually halved the number of positions since 2010 to reflect stronger convictions. At the end of October 2019, the portfolio contained 46 positions. At the sector level, the largest overweightings relative to the category average were to basic materials and financial services. Within the latter, the fund manager initiated several new positions in the past three years in asset management (Tikehau), and small specialized banks that can generate growth such as Sbanken, Avanza Bank, FinecoBank and Cembra Money Bank (bought in 2019). Edenred has remained one of the largest positions in the portfolio although the manager has been taking profits incrementally as the stock price continued to soar in 2019. The expensive multiples reached on some small- and mid-cap companies in 2017 also led her to trim or sell existing positions. At a country level, the portfolio stayed diversified. Since the Brexit vote, companies that could be directly affected by the breakup with the EU have been avoided. But the fund has kept a meaningful exposure to the UK market, even to domestic companies like Travis Perkins. At the end of October 2019, British listed-companies represented 19.6% of the fund's assets compared with a three-year average of 23.4%. The strategy focuses on growth stocks trading at a reasonable price. This is a well-defined and consistently applied approach that earns an Above Average Process rating. The portfolio is invested in European stocks with a market capitalisation between EUR 400 million and EUR 5 billion at initiation, but 25% of its assets may be kept in stocks above the EUR 5 billion threshold. The fund manager filters down this investment universe using a liquidity screening based on daily volumes combined with a set of financial criteria (level of debt, operating margin, and cash generation). The 150 to 170 companies identified at this stage are checked to make sure that they can sustain a level of growth and operating margin in excess of market expectations. ESG scores based on the firm's proprietary model are also assigned to each stock. Very low scores may lead to an exclusion, but that rarely happens in practice. The hundred or so stocks remaining after this stage go through a thorough fundamental analysis that usually includes meeting with the management. Each member of the team validates his investment ideas and target price using a normalised earnings estimation model. The resulting portfolio consists of 50 to 70 stocks, each with a maximum weighting of 5%. Sector exposure is controlled against the Stoxx Europe Small 200 Index (plus/minus 20%), and the strategy generates a portfolio turnover of around 50% a year. Diversification. The fund should be used to complement a European large-cap core portfolio. Supporting Player Dependable. AXA Europe Small Cap is a strong choice thanks to the experience and skills of its fund manager and a robust investment approach. The fund's main retail share classes AC and AD earn a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. The more expensive retail share class E lands at Neutral.Story continuesOne of the strategy's strengths lies with the long experience, lengthy tenure, and investment acumen of its lead fund manager, Isabelle de Gavoty. Unfortunately, she has significant managerial responsibilities at AXA IM, which partially keeps her away from portfolio management. She was nominated head of AXA Framlington France (the firm's equity unit) in April 2019 on top of her existing responsibilities as head of a small-cap team of four.While the situation is not ideal, our concerns have been alleviated as De Gavoty relinquished the management of a French equity fund in 2019. Also, she now increasingly leans on the two most seasoned members in her team to supervise two less-experienced small-cap managers/analysts. It's reassuring to see that AXA IM has committed resources to this team after a few departures. One fund manager and two analysts joined since 2014, and we appreciate that the team has stabilised with no departures since 2015.The investment approach has been stable and applied consistently under de Gavoty's watch. The approach targets small- and mid-cap growth stocks trading at what the fund manager considers a reasonable price. The fund usually sits in the growth column of the Morningstar Style Box. The manager has gradually reduced the number of positions since 2010 to reflect stronger convictions. The fund now contains around 50 holdings. While higher concentration has led to higher volatility at times, risks have been well managed overall. De Gavoty has shown discipline when it comes to valuation, even if costly in the short run as evidenced by the fund's subdued performance in 2017. But over time, the fund has generated a positive alpha against the MSCI Europe SMID index with most of the value-added coming from security selection across different sectors.1380 AXA Investment Managers has a large fund range covering all asset classes. Traditional equity and fixed-income products still represent the bulk of the assets, and the firm has nurtured expertise in several areas, such as European fixed income, global high yield, and listed real estate. But many funds are not competitive enough, as evidenced by the firm's five- and 10-year success ratios, which hover around 50%.The firm has embarked on developing a range of thematic funds in recent years, and it's unclear what the benefits will be for end investors. Such funds often invest in narrow universes and are notoriously difficult to use. Sustainable funds are also being rolled out and use up resources while the firm has been controlling costs more tightly. In the past two years, the company has been undergoing a restructuring initiative, which entailed job cuts in noninvestment functions in late 2018. The senior management team was also overhauled in 2019, and this requires monitoring.Despite these uncertainties, investment staff turnover has so far remained reasonable, and the firm boasts stable and experienced investment teams, with few exceptions. Yet, AXA IM's compensation structure does not stand out from the industry, and we think more could be done to encourage portfolio managers to invest in the funds they run. All things considered, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating. AXA IM is trying to adapt to a changing industry landscape, and this creates some uncertainties for investors.2019-09-19T05:03:00 2019-09-19T10:03:00Z The fund manager has built a convincing track record over the long term. Under Isabelle de Gavoty's direction, from December 2008 to the end of November 2019, the fund's AC share class delivered a 13.4% annualised return compared with 12.0% for the category average and 12.9% for the category index thanks to a robust stock selection across different sectors. The above-average exposure to cyclical sectors led to higher volatility in 2013 and 2014 but it has come down since then. Overall, the fund's alpha against the MSCI Europe SMID is positive in the trailing five- and 10-year periods at end-November 2019.Security selection was positive in consumer goods, industry, and basic materials in 2013, a year in which the fund also benefited from its underexposure to energy and healthcare. The good results for 2014 were achieved thanks to successful bets on cyclical consumer goods and technology. The extent of the outperformance in 2015 was astonishing thanks to a positive stock selection across all but one sector as well as favourable merger-and-acquisition transactions in the portfolio. The fund missed a part of the rally in 2017, as the fund manager took profits on stocks with a strong momentum and increasingly expensive multiples. This move safeguarded the fund in 2018, particularly during the last quarter when the market tumbled. Stock-picking was more mixed in 2019, with large negative contributions from consumer staples and financials, leading to below-average returns.It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we still think this share class will be able to overcome its high fees and deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. F0GBR04R2J Dependable. AXA Europe Small Cap is a strong choice thanks to the experience and skills of its fund manager and a robust investment approach. The fund's main retail share classes AC and AD earn a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. The more expensive retail share class E lands at Neutral.One of the strategy's strengths lies with the long experience, lengthy tenure, and investment acumen of its lead fund manager, Isabelle de Gavoty. Unfortunately, she has significant managerial responsibilities at AXA IM, which partially keeps her away from portfolio management. She was nominated head of AXA Framlington France (the firm's equity unit) in April 2019 on top of her existing responsibilities as head of a small-cap team of four.While the situation is not ideal, our concerns have been alleviated as De Gavoty relinquished the management of a French equity fund in 2019. Also, she now increasingly leans on the two most seasoned members in her team to supervise two less-experienced small-cap managers/analysts. It's reassuring to see that AXA IM has committed resources to this team after a few departures. One fund manager and two analysts joined since 2014, and we appreciate that the team has stabilised with no departures since 2015.The investment approach has been stable and applied consistently under de Gavoty's watch. The approach targets small- and mid-cap growth stocks trading at what the fund manager considers a reasonable price. The fund usually sits in the growth column of the Morningstar Style Box. The manager has gradually reduced the number of positions since 2010 to reflect stronger convictions. The fund now contains around 50 holdings. While higher concentration has led to higher volatility at times, risks have been well managed overall. De Gavoty has shown discipline when it comes to valuation, even if costly in the short run as evidenced by the fund's subdued performance in 2017. But over time, the fund has generated a positive alpha against the MSCI Europe SMID index with most of the value-added coming from security selection across different sectors.1380 AXA Investment Managers has a large fund range covering all asset classes. Traditional equity and fixed-income products still represent the bulk of the assets, and the firm has nurtured expertise in several areas, such as European fixed income, global high yield, and listed real estate. But many funds are not competitive enough, as evidenced by the firm's five- and 10-year success ratios, which hover around 50%.The firm has embarked on developing a range of thematic funds in recent years, and it's unclear what the benefits will be for end investors. Such funds often invest in narrow universes and are notoriously difficult to use. Sustainable funds are also being rolled out and use up resources while the firm has been controlling costs more tightly. In the past two years, the company has been undergoing a restructuring initiative, which entailed job cuts in noninvestment functions in late 2018. The senior management team was also overhauled in 2019, and this requires monitoring.Despite these uncertainties, investment staff turnover has so far remained reasonable, and the firm boasts stable and experienced investment teams, with few exceptions. Yet, AXA IM's compensation structure does not stand out from the industry, and we think more could be done to encourage portfolio managers to invest in the funds they run. All things considered, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating. AXA IM is trying to adapt to a changing industry landscape, and this creates some uncertainties for investors.2019-09-19T05:03:00 2019-09-19T10:03:00Z The fund manager has built a convincing track record over the long term. Under Isabelle de Gavoty's direction, from December 2008 to the end of November 2019, the fund's AC share class delivered a 13.4% annualised return compared with 12.0% for the category average and 12.9% for the category index thanks to a robust stock selection across different sectors. The above-average exposure to cyclical sectors led to higher volatility in 2013 and 2014 but it has come down since then. Overall, the fund's alpha against the MSCI Europe SMID is positive in the trailing five- and 10-year periods at end-November 2019.Security selection was positive in consumer goods, industry, and basic materials in 2013, a year in which the fund also benefited from its underexposure to energy and healthcare. The good results for 2014 were achieved thanks to successful bets on cyclical consumer goods and technology. The extent of the outperformance in 2015 was astonishing thanks to a positive stock selection across all but one sector as well as favourable merger-and-acquisition transactions in the portfolio. The fund missed a part of the rally in 2017, as the fund manager took profits on stocks with a strong momentum and increasingly expensive multiples. This move safeguarded the fund in 2018, particularly during the last quarter when the market tumbled. Stock-picking was more mixed in 2019, with large negative contributions from consumer staples and financials, leading to below-average returns.It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we still think this share class will be able to overcome its high fees and deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. F0GBR04R2K Dependable. AXA Europe Small Cap is a strong choice thanks to the experience and skills of its fund manager and a robust investment approach. The fund's main retail share classes AC and AD earn a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Bronze. The more expensive retail share class E lands at Neutral.One of the strategy's strengths lies with the long experience, lengthy tenure, and investment acumen of its lead fund manager, Isabelle de Gavoty. Unfortunately, she has significant managerial responsibilities at AXA IM, which partially keeps her away from portfolio management. She was nominated head of AXA Framlington France (the firm's equity unit) in April 2019 on top of her existing responsibilities as head of a small-cap team of four.While the situation is not ideal, our concerns have been alleviated as De Gavoty relinquished the management of a French equity fund in 2019. Also, she now increasingly leans on the two most seasoned members in her team to supervise two less-experienced small-cap managers/analysts. It's reassuring to see that AXA IM has committed resources to this team after a few departures. One fund manager and two analysts joined since 2014, and we appreciate that the team has stabilised with no departures since 2015.The investment approach has been stable and applied consistently under de Gavoty's watch. The approach targets small- and mid-cap growth stocks trading at what the fund manager considers a reasonable price. The fund usually sits in the growth column of the Morningstar Style Box. The manager has gradually reduced the number of positions since 2010 to reflect stronger convictions. The fund now contains around 50 holdings. While higher concentration has led to higher volatility at times, risks have been well managed overall. De Gavoty has shown discipline when it comes to valuation, even if costly in the short run as evidenced by the fund's subdued performance in 2017. But over time, the fund has generated a positive alpha against the MSCI Europe SMID index with most of the value-added coming from security selection across different sectors.1380 AXA Investment Managers has a large fund range covering all asset classes. Traditional equity and fixed-income products still represent the bulk of the assets, and the firm has nurtured expertise in several areas, such as European fixed income, global high yield, and listed real estate. But many funds are not competitive enough, as evidenced by the firm's five- and 10-year success ratios, which hover around 50%.The firm has embarked on developing a range of thematic funds in recent years, and it's unclear what the benefits will be for end investors. Such funds often invest in narrow universes and are notoriously difficult to use. Sustainable funds are also being rolled out and use up resources while the firm has been controlling costs more tightly. In the past two years, the company has been undergoing a restructuring initiative, which entailed job cuts in noninvestment functions in late 2018. The senior management team was also overhauled in 2019, and this requires monitoring.Despite these uncertainties, investment staff turnover has so far remained reasonable, and the firm boasts stable and experienced investment teams, with few exceptions. Yet, AXA IM's compensation structure does not stand out from the industry, and we think more could be done to encourage portfolio managers to invest in the funds they run. All things considered, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating. AXA IM is trying to adapt to a changing industry landscape, and this creates some uncertainties for investors.2019-09-19T05:03:00 2019-09-19T10:03:00Z The fund manager has built a convincing track record over the long term. Under Isabelle de Gavoty's direction, from December 2008 to the end of November 2019, the fund's AC share class delivered a 13.4% annualised return compared with 12.0% for the category average and 12.9% for the category index thanks to a robust stock selection across different sectors. The above-average exposure to cyclical sectors led to higher volatility in 2013 and 2014 but it has come down since then. Overall, the fund's alpha against the MSCI Europe SMID is positive in the trailing five- and 10-year periods at end-November 2019.Security selection was positive in consumer goods, industry, and basic materials in 2013, a year in which the fund also benefited from its underexposure to energy and healthcare. The good results for 2014 were achieved thanks to successful bets on cyclical consumer goods and technology. The extent of the outperformance in 2015 was astonishing thanks to a positive stock selection across all but one sector as well as favourable merger-and-acquisition transactions in the portfolio. The fund missed a part of the rally in 2017, as the fund manager took profits on stocks with a strong momentum and increasingly expensive multiples. This move safeguarded the fund in 2018, particularly during the last quarter when the market tumbled. Stock-picking was more mixed in 2019, with large negative contributions from consumer staples and financials, leading to below-average returns.It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, and based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we don't think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Neutral. F000005H32 LiveAXA Europe Small CapReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextStressing Quality and Price...AgainGuruFocus.comActivist investor takes stake in Olin Corp., targets board seatsAmerican City Business JournalsRichard Branson’s Wealth Falls to Earth as Virgin Galactic SputtersBloombergA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoBiocontainment expert on coronavirus: There's no need for average people to panic yetYahoo FinanceAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoBaidu warns of big hit from coronavirus outbreakAFPStock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceMost face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo FinanceDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance VideoDow Jones Futures Fall Sharply As Coronavirus Stock Market Correction Intensifies; Tesla, Nvidia, Beyond Meat Down LateInvestor's Business DailyStock market live updates: Stock futures climb after historic rout; coronavirus fears persistYahoo Finance'Stuck in no man’s land': A working mom details dealing with her sick child's student loan billYahoo Finance