HSBC FTSE All ShareHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMoreYahooSearchNo matching results for ''Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant resultsSign inMailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMore...YAHOO_FINANCESearchSign inMailSign in to view your mailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)HSBC FTSE All ShareDimitar Boyadzhiev (dimitar.boyadzhiev@morningstar.com),R.J. Hottovy, CFA (rj.hottovy@morningstar.com),Tim Wong, CFA (tim.wong@morningstar.com),Thomas Lancereau, CFA (thomas.lancereau@morningstar.com),Mathieu Caquineau, CFA (mathieu.caquineau@morningstar.com),Mathieu Caquineau, CFA (mathieu.caquineau@morningstar.com),Karen Andersen, CFA (karen.andersen@morningstar.com),Jeffrey Stafford, CFA (jeffrey.stafford@morningstar.com),Julie Utterback, CFA (julie.utterback@morningstar.com),Nick Watson (nick.watson@morningstar.com)MorningstarJanuary 6, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareen-GB The fund is run by an experienced team. Joseph Molloy joined HSBC in March 2015 as the new global head of passive equity. Prior to HSBC, Molloy was global head of index equities at Legal & General Investment Management, where he was employed since 2009. Molloy has demonstrated extensive portfolio management experience across many index strategies over the course of his investment management career. He currently represents HSBC by being a member of the FTSE Country Classification Committee.Patricia Keogh joined HSBC in March 2013 as a senior fund manager. Previously, she worked as an index equity portfolio manager at BlackRock Asset Management for three years and at BGI, prior to its merger with BlackRock, from 2001. Keogh holds a degree in Business Studies and Languages from Trinity College, Dublin.The equity indexation and exchange-traded fund teams are fully integrated. As such, all the portfolio managers are responsible for the management of HSBC's equity index fund range as well as its ETF range. This approach allows information and management tools to be shared efficiently. One-stop shop for UK equity exposure. Holding around 600 stocks, the portfolio is representative of the UK opportunity set, well-diversified and broad. The index looks well-balanced from a stock perspective. HSBC, AstraZeneca, and BP are the three largest index holdings, with a 3%-5% weighting each.The constituents of the index are determined quarterly. Top sector exposures include financials and consumer defensive (both 15%-20%), energy (10%-15%), and industrials (9%-11%). Most of the companies in the FTSE All- Share Index do business in the United Kingdom, but the largest holdings have a global reach. As of this writing, most of the revenue is derived from the United States and the UK--about one fourth each--followed by continental Europe (15%-20%) and China (12%-15%). The fund's exposure to revenues from nondeveloped countries is about one fifth of its market value. The fund seeks to replicate the FTSE All Share Index while minimizing trading costs. The fund earns an Above-Average Process Pillar rating because it diversifies risk and promotes low turnover.The FTSE All Share Index is a free-float-adjusted, market-cap-weighted index that blankets almost every UK stock.The fund captures the market-cap allocations of the category average well. As of this review, the fund has invested about 65% of its portfolio in large and giant-caps, compared with 61% for its average category peer.The portfolio management team uses an optimised technique to replicate the performance of the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index. Instead of holding all the index's constituents in the same weightings, the fund holds a basket of securities that reflects the risk/reward characteristics of the index. A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.Story continuesHSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000V987 A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000OOAT A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F0GBR06I7O A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F0GBR04CPO A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F0GBR04CPQ A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F0GBR06I7R A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000OOAU A compelling UK all-market investment proposition. HSBC FTSE All Share tracks a broad and diversified index that has proved a formidable opponent for active funds to beat. It retains its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver.By capturing over 98% of the UK equity market, the FTSE All-Share Index provides broad and representative exposure to UK stocks. With its 20%-25% allocation to mid- and small caps, it offers broader and more-diversified exposure than the better-known but mega-cap-heavy FTSE 100 Index. The FTSE All-Share Index is an adequate representation of the opportunity set available to investors.With an ongoing charge of 0.07% this fund is very competitively priced relative to the average active and passive fund in the UK large-cap Morningstar Category.This fund has outperformed the average peer over the past three-, five-, and 10-year periods on a risk-adjusted basis.Overall, this is the best passive option for UK equity exposure. Its portfolio is well-diversified and captures almost the entire opportunity set, making it a tough opponent to beat. This fund boasts a minimal level of tracking error, and we have a positive view of the portfolio management team. 1604 HSBC GAM offers a very diversified lineup, which spans multiple asset classes, regions (including numerous single-country offerings), and investment styles: active, passive, and various strands of strategic beta. Results have been solid--the firm boasts a five-year average success ratio of 55%--but such a wide range makes it difficult to excel everywhere. There are some areas of strength, such as the European active fixed-income group, which runs several Morningstar Medallist funds. More recently, the firm has also made a push into passive fixed-income by making a key hire and launching reasonably priced government- and corporate-bond index funds. Investment teams have generally been stable, with portfolio-manager retention rates exceeding 90% over five years and an average manager tenure of 7.4 years as per Morningstar data. Still, we believe that portfolio managers' variable pay could be better aligned with investors' interests by being more formally tied to funds' performance. Variable pay is typically deferred, but in most instances, it is indexed to HSBC shares, which isn't ideal, and only in some cases to a basket of HSBC GAM funds. Historically, the firm had not always been proactive in limiting asset growth in capacity-constrained strategies, but lately we've seen more-encouraging evidence of funds being soft-closed to preserve the interests of existing fundholders. Overall, we retain a Neutral Parent Pillar rating here.HSBC GAM has some solid attributes, but its practices don't stand out from the crowd. 2019-04-09T08:23:00 2019-04-09T13:23:00Z The fund's risk-adjusted performance has been better than the average category peer. The fund's risk-adjusted returns over the trailing three-, five- and 10-year periods have been above the average peer in the UK large-cap category.When looking at absolute returns only, during the trailing five years through November 2019, the fund's total return has been 0.7% higher than that of the category average. This can be largely attributed to the fund's cost advantage and low turnover.Despite its bias towards larger stocks, the fund's three- and five-year standard deviations are in line with the category average. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's cheapest quintile. Based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F0GBR06I7Q LiveHSBC FTSE All ShareReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextCoronavirus latest news: 'Just a matter of time' until outbreak hits UK as cases spread across EuropeThe TelegraphBritain’s past holds the key to breaking the deadly cycle of heroin addiction and crimeThe IndependentUK talks tough on EU post-Brexit trade dealAFPCanada will 'cease' paying for part of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's security costsYahoo LifestyleCoronavirus: Football games and concerts could be banned for two months if pandemic hits UK, says chief medicThe IndependentBiocontainment expert on coronavirus: There's no need for average people to panic yetYahoo FinanceA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoRichard Branson’s Wealth Falls to Earth as Virgin Galactic SputtersBloombergAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoWhat Does TL Natural Gas Holdings Limited’s (HKG:8536) 14% ROCE Say About The Business?Simply Wall St.Stock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceMost face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo FinanceDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance Video