Flickr/grand_canyon_npsTrailer camping at Grand Canyon National ParkLong-term residents of an Ohio campground were told they have until May to pack up and move on down the road, the Sun News' Bruce Geiselman reports. North Ridgeville's city  council approved a deal with Ridgeville Three LLC to expand  a nearby luxury apartment complex. R esidents were  served a notice earlier this month that they had three days to leave the property. That has since been extended to one month. “Most of us are on fixed or zero income,” a 10-year resident of the campgrounds told Sun News. “It’s difficult to give somebody three days notice.”To add insult to injury, some of the camp-dwellers were so desperate for more time that they were reportedly scammed into paying a man who claimed to work with the property owner's management company and promised them an extension.Redwood later sent residents a letter saying they "were never advised" of the person's role.Many residents of the campground have trailer homes and live there all year. The residents said they didn't have formal leases, but did pay monthly rent to the campground. According to the  Ohio Landlord-Tenant Act , a landlord can end a month-to-month lease that is not in writing by giving the tenant 30-days notice. That likely explains why the new property owners backpedaled and extended their deadline to a month.Previous
stories in the Sun News
indicate that the mayor had threatened to close down the park for at least eight years before the development deal was finalized and had criticized it for being poorly maintained. But the campground's owner and city officials feared the dozen or so permanent residents wouldn't have a place to go.“Redwood Management and the mayor say our campground is an ‘eyesore’ … to us, those [apartments] are an eyesore,” a  resident told The Chronicle-Telegram .  “Variety is the spice of life.”More From Business Insider This Stunning Upstate NY Wedding Cost Less Than $9,000Colorado Couple Builds An Incredible Treehouse Village In Costa RicaSee How One Man Moved Into The Wilderness And Turned His Back On Currency For Good