For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – April 11, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), Comcast Corp (CMCSA), Amazon (AMZN), Intersil Corporation (ISIL) and Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN ).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Wednesday’s Analyst Blog: Microsoft Collaborates with NBC SportsMicrosoft Corp. (MSFT) and NBC Sports Group have announced a partnership to use Windows Azure Media Services across NBC Sports' digital platforms.NBC Sports is the sports division of the NBC television network, whose parent company is Comcast Corp (CMCSA). The group broadcasts premier sporting events and its diverse program portfolio includes "Sunday Night Football," PGA TOUR, Triple Crown horse racing, French Open tennis, Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games, Premier League soccer, Formula One and Indy Car racing, Notre Dame Football, U.S. Open golf and Major League Soccer.According to the agreement, NBC Sports Group will adopt Microsoft’s Windows Azure Media Services for its digital platforms, including NBCSports.com, NBCOlympics.com and GolfChannel.com, starting this summer. Windows Azure Media Services will provide both live as well as on-demand video streaming services related to games and events on laptops, tablets, smartphones and PCs.The alliance will broaden the reach of both the companies going forward. NBC will be able to reach a broader customer base and Microsoft will be able to expand its range of cloud offerings.Windows Azure is Microsoft’s cloud computing platform for building, deploying and managing applications and services through a global network of its managed datacenters. Windows Azure core services include Media Services, Mobile Services, Cloud Services, Virtual Machines, Websites and Big Data. It competes with Amazon's (AMZN) AWS cloud computing platform and the OpSource Cloud Computing Services.IDC predicts that the cloud market may jump 130% reaching $43.0 billion in 2016. Further, Gartner predicts that around $677.0 billion may be spent on cloud services within the 2013–2016 timeframe. Microsoft, with its solid portfolio and growing partnerships should be able to tap this opportunity.Microsoft remains one of the best positioned software vendors, given its wide range of products, emerging markets strength, continued technology deployment at data centers and growth in cloud computing. The company delivered better-than-expected second quarter results with non-GAAP earnings up sequentially. New products across segments, strength in the cloud computing segment and share gains in search combined to generate the encouraging results.However, Microsoft is also battling the slump in the PC market caused by the sluggish economy. Therefore, it is important for the company to focus on emerging segments such as mobile hardware and the cloud.Currently, Microsoft has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). Other stocks in the sector that are performing well currently include Intersil Corporation (ISIL) and Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN ), both carrying a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Story continuesVisit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on MSFT Read the analyst report on CMCSA Read the analyst report on AMZN Read the analyst report on ISIL Read the analyst report on PCLN Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on MSFT,CMCSA,AMZN,ISIL,PCLN