Schroder China Equity AlphaHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMoreYahooSearchNo matching results for ''Tip: Try a valid symbol or a specific company name for relevant resultsSign inMailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechHomeMailNewsFinanceSportsEntertainmentSearchMobileMore...YAHOO_FINANCESearchSign inMailSign in to view your mailFinance HomeWatchlistsMy PortfolioScreenersPremiumMarketsIndustriesPersonal FinanceVideosNewsTechU.S. Markets closedS&P 5002,978.76-137.63(-4.42%)Dow 3025,766.64-1,190.95(-4.42%)Nasdaq8,566.48-414.29(-4.61%)Schroder China Equity AlphaMorningstarJanuary 2, 2020ReblogShareTweetShareen-US Experienced and capable China A-share managers backed by a well-resourced team. Head of Greater China equity investments Louisa Lo is a named portfolio manager on the strategy and is one of our favourite Greater China equity managers. She works closely with Jack Lee, who has done the heavy lifting for the strategy since its inception in March 2013. Lee boasts 22 years of investment experience in China equities, seven of which have been with Schroders. He showed a true passion for investing and demonstrated a deep understanding of the onshore equity market at our November 2019 meeting. He is mainly responsible for managing China A-share mandates, with a total AUM of USD 1.79 billion as of 30 Sept 2019. As the Head of China A-share Research, Lee's A-share ideas contribute to a wide range of mandates managed by Schroders' Asian equity desk.Lee is supported by the 16-member Greater China team, which sports 14 years of investment experience and six years of tenure on average. The historically stable team has seen five analyst departures since 2017. While we are cognizant of the toll this may take on existing members, we are encouraged to see that the team has been expanding its A-share research capability, with three A-share analysts and an A-shares manager joining since 2018. Its A-share coverage ramped up to 100-150 stocks in 2019. Overall, capable portfolio managers and a well-resourced research team earns the strategy a People rating of Above Average. A consumption theme is prominent in the portfolio. The portfolio reflects portfolio manager Jack Lee's preference for quality growth companies linked to China's consumption upgrade story. The 30 Sept 2019 portfolio's largest sector overweight was in consumer discretionary, with an allocation of 19.7% compared to MSCI China A Onshore index's 8.8%. Lee added to Oppein Home Group (3%) in 2019, while selling out entirely of its competitor Sourfeiya Home Collection in the first quarter of 2019. The switch was done to consolidate positioning towards the winner in the sector. Lee liked Oppein for its ability to deliver and expand across a range of home furnishing categories from its kitchen cabinet roots. Top bet in the consumer staples sector (13.5%) was Anhui Kouzi Distillery (4.4%). Lee cited the provincial white liquor company's healthy distribution channel and ecosystem. The 30 Sept 2019 portfolio had 12.2% in materials compared to the index's 8.3%. Lee liked paint manufacturer Sk Shu Paint (2.7%), a name that is linked to the consumption upgrade theme as consumers look for higher-quality products. Lee noted that the company's environmentally friendly product and strong distribution channel gives it a competitive edge. Within healthcare (8.8%), Lee favoured livestock vaccine manufacturer Jingyu Bio-tech for its high-quality products, and believed it had much room to grow compared to its international peers. The quality-growth-focused investment process is well-structured and consistently applied. Portfolio manager Jack Lee employs Schroders Asian desk's quality-growth-focused investment process. The team adopts a rigorous stock-selection framework that seeks to identify quality growth companies. At company level, they look at sustainability of competitive advantage and execution capability; at industry level, they look at factors such as barriers to entry and threat of substitution. Stocks are classified into four categories according to their growth prospects, and the team favours those that can generate higher return on investment capital than their weighted average cost of capital, or those with ROIC currently below WACC but trending toward a positive spread. They then grade the stocks from 1 to 4, with 1 representing a strong conviction that the stock will outperform.Compare with his more benchmark-aware, offshore Chinese equity-focused counterparts at Schroders, Lee runs a more concentrated portfolio of 30-60 names, with targeted tracking error ranging from 5 to 12%. Sector exposure is generally limited to around +/- 15% relative to MSCI China A Onshore index. Given the A-shares' fast-evolving and volatile market environment, Lee is also nimbler with his idea implementation, and has a slightly higher portfolio turnover of 50%-150%. Overall, the strategy's well-structured investment process has been consistently applied, earning it a Process rating of Above Average. This strategy is best suited as a niche player for most investors, but it can play a bigger role for investors based in the China region. Specialty An attractive proposition for onshore China equity exposure. A capable investment team and a consistently applied investment process drive our confidence in Schroder China Equity Alpha. The strategy earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver across all its Hong Kong-domiciled vehicle's share classes.Story continuesVeteran manager Louisa Lo has been a named portfolio manager since the strategy's launch in March 2013. She comanages with Jack Lee, who is in charge of the daily running of the strategy. Lee has 22 years of investment experience in China A-share and H-share, seven of them with Schroders. Lee has been in this capacity since the strategy's inception and impressed us with his great familiarity with the China onshore market and clearly articulated investment cases. He is supported by the sizable 16-member Greater China team. The historically stable team has seen five departures since the beginning of 2017. While we are cognisant about how this may affect the quality of research, we recognize the team's continuous efforts in building out its A-share research capability, which ramped up to 100-150 stocks under coverage in 2019.Lee has consistently applied a time-tested investment process, which is best characterized as quality growth at a reasonable price. The process is clearly defined, repeatable, and has been successful across a range of Schroders Asian equity mandates. Lee has implemented the same process since the A-share strategy's launch, and he has proved over time that he sticks to the team's investment ethos. Given the fast-evolving and volatile nature of the A-share market, Lee has a higher risk appetite and is nimbler with his idea implementation than his H-share-focused fellows. His portfolio therefore has a higher targeted tracking error budget and portfolio turnover.The strategy has delivered strong long-term returns. Since 8 March 2013 through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust gained 12.52% per year via its C share class, outpacing the MSCI China Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers.Overall, our conviction in Lee and his execution of the proven investment process makes this strategy an appealing proposition. 2045 Founded over 200 years ago, Schroders has benefited from stable ownership, with the Schroder family still holding nearly half of the company's listed shares. This provides a steady platform that allows for long-term strategic planning for future growth. Schroders' standout expertise is in equities, where the fund manager lineup is generally of a high calibre, boasts longevity at the firm, and is backed by sensible succession planning. This is particularly the case in Asian, European, US small-cap, Japanese, and Australian equities, together with the value franchise. The UK equity desk, however, has seen fund manager turnover. Fund launches are selective, and pockets of fixed income earn positive Morningstar Analyst Ratings. There generally has been more stability in equities, however, where remuneration for fund managers is related to outperformance over three- and five-year periods (with a greater weight placed on the former). In fixed income and multi-asset, a one- and three-year split is in place, a reflection of what the group sees as investor expectations in these spaces. The firm has been acquisitive in specialist areas (private equity, insurance-linked securities, and securitised credit) as part of widening its footprint across asset classes. Wealth management has also been on the agenda with the purchase of Cazenove in 2013, which included its asset-management business, and more recently C. Hoare in 2017. Family-backed ownership with particular strength in equities. 2019-03-13T10:38:00 2019-03-13T15:38:00Z Portfolio manager Jack Lee has built a strong long-term track record. Portfolio manager Jack Lee has managed the strategy since it launched on 8 March 2013 and delivered strong returns over his tenure. Through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust's C share class returned 12.52% per year, outpacing the MSCI China A Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers. The outperformance has been consistent, and the C share class has outperformed peers and index every calendar year since 2015. Volatility, as measured by standard deviation, has been lower than its peers, so its risk-adjusted return has been stellar as well.That said, the strategy had a less-than-stellar 2019. As of 30 Nov, the C share class gained 27.37%, only outperforming its index and peers by 50 and 99 basis points, respectively. Stock picks within the materials sector, such as Sk Shu Paint and Shandong Sinocera, and the industrials sector, such as Weichai Power, added the most value. Conversely, the underweight in the health care sector and poor stock selection in the IT sector dragged on relative results. The zero weight in white liquor stock Kweichow Moutai was one of the top individual detractors in 2019. At our meeting in November 2019, Lee noted that Moutai was fully valued and was wary of its product demand's sustainability. He also had ESG concerns on the company as its former chairman has been charged with accepting bribes. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's middle quintile. That's not great, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we think this share class will still be able to deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000TEJI An attractive proposition for onshore China equity exposure. A capable investment team and a consistently applied investment process drive our confidence in Schroder China Equity Alpha. The strategy earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver across all its Hong Kong-domiciled vehicle's share classes.Veteran manager Louisa Lo has been a named portfolio manager since the strategy's launch in March 2013. She comanages with Jack Lee, who is in charge of the daily running of the strategy. Lee has 22 years of investment experience in China A-share and H-share, seven of them with Schroders. Lee has been in this capacity since the strategy's inception and impressed us with his great familiarity with the China onshore market and clearly articulated investment cases. He is supported by the sizable 16-member Greater China team. The historically stable team has seen five departures since the beginning of 2017. While we are cognisant about how this may affect the quality of research, we recognize the team's continuous efforts in building out its A-share research capability, which ramped up to 100-150 stocks under coverage in 2019.Lee has consistently applied a time-tested investment process, which is best characterized as quality growth at a reasonable price. The process is clearly defined, repeatable, and has been successful across a range of Schroders Asian equity mandates. Lee has implemented the same process since the A-share strategy's launch, and he has proved over time that he sticks to the team's investment ethos. Given the fast-evolving and volatile nature of the A-share market, Lee has a higher risk appetite and is nimbler with his idea implementation than his H-share-focused fellows. His portfolio therefore has a higher targeted tracking error budget and portfolio turnover.The strategy has delivered strong long-term returns. Since 8 March 2013 through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust gained 12.52% per year via its C share class, outpacing the MSCI China Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers.Overall, our conviction in Lee and his execution of the proven investment process makes this strategy an appealing proposition. 2045 Founded over 200 years ago, Schroders has benefited from stable ownership, with the Schroder family still holding nearly half of the company's listed shares. This provides a steady platform that allows for long-term strategic planning for future growth. Schroders' standout expertise is in equities, where the fund manager lineup is generally of a high calibre, boasts longevity at the firm, and is backed by sensible succession planning. This is particularly the case in Asian, European, US small-cap, Japanese, and Australian equities, together with the value franchise. The UK equity desk, however, has seen fund manager turnover. Fund launches are selective, and pockets of fixed income earn positive Morningstar Analyst Ratings. There generally has been more stability in equities, however, where remuneration for fund managers is related to outperformance over three- and five-year periods (with a greater weight placed on the former). In fixed income and multi-asset, a one- and three-year split is in place, a reflection of what the group sees as investor expectations in these spaces. The firm has been acquisitive in specialist areas (private equity, insurance-linked securities, and securitised credit) as part of widening its footprint across asset classes. Wealth management has also been on the agenda with the purchase of Cazenove in 2013, which included its asset-management business, and more recently C. Hoare in 2017. Family-backed ownership with particular strength in equities. 2019-03-13T10:38:00 2019-03-13T15:38:00Z Portfolio manager Jack Lee has built a strong long-term track record. Portfolio manager Jack Lee has managed the strategy since it launched on 8 March 2013 and delivered strong returns over his tenure. Through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust's C share class returned 12.52% per year, outpacing the MSCI China A Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers. The outperformance has been consistent, and the C share class has outperformed peers and index every calendar year since 2015. Volatility, as measured by standard deviation, has been lower than its peers, so its risk-adjusted return has been stellar as well.That said, the strategy had a less-than-stellar 2019. As of 30 Nov, the C share class gained 27.37%, only outperforming its index and peers by 50 and 99 basis points, respectively. Stock picks within the materials sector, such as Sk Shu Paint and Shandong Sinocera, and the industrials sector, such as Weichai Power, added the most value. Conversely, the underweight in the health care sector and poor stock selection in the IT sector dragged on relative results. The zero weight in white liquor stock Kweichow Moutai was one of the top individual detractors in 2019. At our meeting in November 2019, Lee noted that Moutai was fully valued and was wary of its product demand's sustainability. He also had ESG concerns on the company as its former chairman has been charged with accepting bribes. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we still think this share class will be able to overcome its high fees and deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000TEJG An attractive proposition for onshore China equity exposure. A capable investment team and a consistently applied investment process drive our confidence in Schroder China Equity Alpha. The strategy earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver across all its Hong Kong-domiciled vehicle's share classes.Veteran manager Louisa Lo has been a named portfolio manager since the strategy's launch in March 2013. She comanages with Jack Lee, who is in charge of the daily running of the strategy. Lee has 22 years of investment experience in China A-share and H-share, seven of them with Schroders. Lee has been in this capacity since the strategy's inception and impressed us with his great familiarity with the China onshore market and clearly articulated investment cases. He is supported by the sizable 16-member Greater China team. The historically stable team has seen five departures since the beginning of 2017. While we are cognisant about how this may affect the quality of research, we recognize the team's continuous efforts in building out its A-share research capability, which ramped up to 100-150 stocks under coverage in 2019.Lee has consistently applied a time-tested investment process, which is best characterized as quality growth at a reasonable price. The process is clearly defined, repeatable, and has been successful across a range of Schroders Asian equity mandates. Lee has implemented the same process since the A-share strategy's launch, and he has proved over time that he sticks to the team's investment ethos. Given the fast-evolving and volatile nature of the A-share market, Lee has a higher risk appetite and is nimbler with his idea implementation than his H-share-focused fellows. His portfolio therefore has a higher targeted tracking error budget and portfolio turnover.The strategy has delivered strong long-term returns. Since 8 March 2013 through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust gained 12.52% per year via its C share class, outpacing the MSCI China Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers.Overall, our conviction in Lee and his execution of the proven investment process makes this strategy an appealing proposition. 2045 Founded over 200 years ago, Schroders has benefited from stable ownership, with the Schroder family still holding nearly half of the company's listed shares. This provides a steady platform that allows for long-term strategic planning for future growth. Schroders' standout expertise is in equities, where the fund manager lineup is generally of a high calibre, boasts longevity at the firm, and is backed by sensible succession planning. This is particularly the case in Asian, European, US small-cap, Japanese, and Australian equities, together with the value franchise. The UK equity desk, however, has seen fund manager turnover. Fund launches are selective, and pockets of fixed income earn positive Morningstar Analyst Ratings. There generally has been more stability in equities, however, where remuneration for fund managers is related to outperformance over three- and five-year periods (with a greater weight placed on the former). In fixed income and multi-asset, a one- and three-year split is in place, a reflection of what the group sees as investor expectations in these spaces. The firm has been acquisitive in specialist areas (private equity, insurance-linked securities, and securitised credit) as part of widening its footprint across asset classes. Wealth management has also been on the agenda with the purchase of Cazenove in 2013, which included its asset-management business, and more recently C. Hoare in 2017. Family-backed ownership with particular strength in equities. 2019-03-13T10:38:00 2019-03-13T15:38:00Z Portfolio manager Jack Lee has built a strong long-term track record. Portfolio manager Jack Lee has managed the strategy since it launched on 8 March 2013 and delivered strong returns over his tenure. Through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust's C share class returned 12.52% per year, outpacing the MSCI China A Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers. The outperformance has been consistent, and the C share class has outperformed peers and index every calendar year since 2015. Volatility, as measured by standard deviation, has been lower than its peers, so its risk-adjusted return has been stellar as well.That said, the strategy had a less-than-stellar 2019. As of 30 Nov, the C share class gained 27.37%, only outperforming its index and peers by 50 and 99 basis points, respectively. Stock picks within the materials sector, such as Sk Shu Paint and Shandong Sinocera, and the industrials sector, such as Weichai Power, added the most value. Conversely, the underweight in the health care sector and poor stock selection in the IT sector dragged on relative results. The zero weight in white liquor stock Kweichow Moutai was one of the top individual detractors in 2019. At our meeting in November 2019, Lee noted that Moutai was fully valued and was wary of its product demand's sustainability. He also had ESG concerns on the company as its former chairman has been charged with accepting bribes. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we still think this share class will be able to overcome its high fees and deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000XIF1 An attractive proposition for onshore China equity exposure. A capable investment team and a consistently applied investment process drive our confidence in Schroder China Equity Alpha. The strategy earns a Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver across all its Hong Kong-domiciled vehicle's share classes.Veteran manager Louisa Lo has been a named portfolio manager since the strategy's launch in March 2013. She comanages with Jack Lee, who is in charge of the daily running of the strategy. Lee has 22 years of investment experience in China A-share and H-share, seven of them with Schroders. Lee has been in this capacity since the strategy's inception and impressed us with his great familiarity with the China onshore market and clearly articulated investment cases. He is supported by the sizable 16-member Greater China team. The historically stable team has seen five departures since the beginning of 2017. While we are cognisant about how this may affect the quality of research, we recognize the team's continuous efforts in building out its A-share research capability, which ramped up to 100-150 stocks under coverage in 2019.Lee has consistently applied a time-tested investment process, which is best characterized as quality growth at a reasonable price. The process is clearly defined, repeatable, and has been successful across a range of Schroders Asian equity mandates. Lee has implemented the same process since the A-share strategy's launch, and he has proved over time that he sticks to the team's investment ethos. Given the fast-evolving and volatile nature of the A-share market, Lee has a higher risk appetite and is nimbler with his idea implementation than his H-share-focused fellows. His portfolio therefore has a higher targeted tracking error budget and portfolio turnover.The strategy has delivered strong long-term returns. Since 8 March 2013 through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust gained 12.52% per year via its C share class, outpacing the MSCI China Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers.Overall, our conviction in Lee and his execution of the proven investment process makes this strategy an appealing proposition. 2045 Founded over 200 years ago, Schroders has benefited from stable ownership, with the Schroder family still holding nearly half of the company's listed shares. This provides a steady platform that allows for long-term strategic planning for future growth. Schroders' standout expertise is in equities, where the fund manager lineup is generally of a high calibre, boasts longevity at the firm, and is backed by sensible succession planning. This is particularly the case in Asian, European, US small-cap, Japanese, and Australian equities, together with the value franchise. The UK equity desk, however, has seen fund manager turnover. Fund launches are selective, and pockets of fixed income earn positive Morningstar Analyst Ratings. There generally has been more stability in equities, however, where remuneration for fund managers is related to outperformance over three- and five-year periods (with a greater weight placed on the former). In fixed income and multi-asset, a one- and three-year split is in place, a reflection of what the group sees as investor expectations in these spaces. The firm has been acquisitive in specialist areas (private equity, insurance-linked securities, and securitised credit) as part of widening its footprint across asset classes. Wealth management has also been on the agenda with the purchase of Cazenove in 2013, which included its asset-management business, and more recently C. Hoare in 2017. Family-backed ownership with particular strength in equities. 2019-03-13T10:38:00 2019-03-13T15:38:00Z Portfolio manager Jack Lee has built a strong long-term track record. Portfolio manager Jack Lee has managed the strategy since it launched on 8 March 2013 and delivered strong returns over his tenure. Through 30 Nov 2019, the Hong Kong unit trust's C share class returned 12.52% per year, outpacing the MSCI China A Onshore Index by 910 basis points and ranking in the 14th percentile among peers. The outperformance has been consistent, and the C share class has outperformed peers and index every calendar year since 2015. Volatility, as measured by standard deviation, has been lower than its peers, so its risk-adjusted return has been stellar as well.That said, the strategy had a less-than-stellar 2019. As of 30 Nov, the C share class gained 27.37%, only outperforming its index and peers by 50 and 99 basis points, respectively. Stock picks within the materials sector, such as Sk Shu Paint and Shandong Sinocera, and the industrials sector, such as Weichai Power, added the most value. Conversely, the underweight in the health care sector and poor stock selection in the IT sector dragged on relative results. The zero weight in white liquor stock Kweichow Moutai was one of the top individual detractors in 2019. At our meeting in November 2019, Lee noted that Moutai was fully valued and was wary of its product demand's sustainability. He also had ESG concerns on the company as its former chairman has been charged with accepting bribes. It's critical to evaluate expenses, as they come directly out of returns. The share class on this report levies a fee that ranks in its Morningstar category's second-costliest quintile. That's poor, but based on our assessment of the fund's People, Process and Parent pillars in the context of these fees, we still think this share class will be able to overcome its high fees and deliver positive alpha relative to the category benchmark index, explaining its Morningstar Analyst Rating of Silver. F00000XIF2 LiveSchroder China Equity AlphaReblogShareTweetShareRecently ViewedYour list is empty.What to Read NextKorea Cases Top 2,000; WHO Sees ‘Decisive’ Stage: Virus UpdateBloombergHow investors are using ‘alternative’ data to track China’s recovery from coronaviruMarketWatchWorld prepares for coronavirus pandemic; global recession forecastReutersOPEC Chief Says Group Is Making Renewed Push for Oil DealBloombergChina Stock Option’s 2,800% Surge Shows Rush for HedgesBloombergRichard Branson’s Wealth Falls to Earth as Virgin Galactic SputtersBloombergA drug shortage due to the coronavirus is a 'considerable risk:' Fmr. FDA deputy commissionerYahoo Finance VideoDon’t buy the stock dip yet, says Goldman as it warns coronavirus will wipe out earnings growth this yearMarketWatchAmid coronavirus, bitcoin has fallen 6% this week to below $8,800Yahoo FinanceEl-Erian: The Fed will cut rates in March, if not beforeYahoo Finance VideoHow Does China Grand Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Holdings Limited (HKG:512) Stand Up To These Simple Dividend Safety Checks?Simply Wall St.Most face masks won’t protect you from the coronavirusYahoo FinanceStock market live updates: Dow drops 1190 points amid coronavirus fears, S&P 500 sees fastest correction in historyYahoo FinanceStock market live updates: Stock futures climb after historic rout; coronavirus fears persistYahoo FinanceCoronavirus-induced stock selloff means IPO market is 'on holiday': veteran IPO analystYahoo FinanceMarket Watcher: Over six months we will see the markets higher Yahoo Finance Video