(Accesswire - September 12th, 2013) / MarketersMedia / - In a recent story released on simplyawesomecars.com, the automotive entusiast publication simplyawesomecars.com took a look at the new Mercedes-Benz S 63 AMG and summarized that it "may very well be the most impressive car of the 2014 model year." The Mercedes-Benz S Class was introduced in the spring of 2013 and the new S 63 from Daimler’s AMG performance shop was just recently unveiled for the 2014 model year. The S 63 is a luxury sedan with a variety of high performance upgrades.Carl Holloway, an editor of Simply Awesome Cars, gave further comment on the recently published article about the S 63, "In the title to the article, we said that AMG services was unleashing a beast, and we really mean that. The 5.5 liter engine, paired with the very capable transmission and suspension in this car put it far ahead of your average luxury sedan. This thing is so powerful it’s almost scary!"The editors of Simply Awesome Cars stated that writing about high-end cars like the new S 63 is exciting in a much different way than writing about concept cars and race cars. "You’re just never going to drive an LeMans prototype or something like that on the road", said site editor Carl Holloway, "On the other hand, with a car like the S 63 you can take to the road in a machine that has a veritable racing heritage that shows in the power the folks at AMG supply."The recently published article mentioned the high-tech luxury features of the S 63, such as twin 12 inch color displays and advanced seating adjustments, and then went in-depth into the performance aspects of the S 63. According to the article, the car comes with an AMG 5.5 liter twin-turbo V8 motor. The engine is capable of producing 577 horsepower, and can create 664 pound-feet of torque at 2, 250 RPM. In addition to the raw power, the Mercedes-Benz S 63 AMG delivers performance through an advanced all wheel drive traction control system and a multiple mode seven speed transmission.Story continues"We’re confident in saying that this is the most impressive car of 2014," states Holloway, "As far as we can tell, there is nothing in the same price range that delivers such a stunning package of technology, power, driveability and comfort."SimplyAwesomeCars.com is the ideal place to find all the latest news, reviews, photos, and information about cars that are just simply awesome. Whether it’s a sports car, a family sedan, a vintage classic or a new car if it’s awesome it will be on simplyawesomecars.com.Visit http://simplyawesomecars.com for more information.Contact InfoName: Carl Holloway Email: info@simplyawesomecars.com PR distribution from MarketersMedia. Source: http://marketersmedia.com/amg-services-s-63-declared-most-impressive-car-of-2014-by-simply-awesome-cars/22227