AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Sep 13, 2013) - (IBC stand 14.C10) - Edgeware, the technology leader in distributed video delivery, today announces its new solution for over-the-top (OTT) and pay-TV service providers who struggle with scaling costs in their multiscreen headends. The D-VDN Origin Accelerator significantly reduces complexity and performance requirements and therefore costs of origin servers by accelerating both ingest and playout capacity.Demand for operator TV everywhere and new OTT cloud TV services is creating massive pressure on video headends. These services require headends to record and store more content in more bit rates and formats than ever before, while delivering content to an increasing number of access networks. To address this issue, many vendors have developed origin servers that are able to record, store and serve programs in the different formats as needed. However, origin servers still face major issues with costs and efficiency.Costs scale rapidly with the number of channels, the number of recordings and the number of networks served by the origin servers. While local caching in these networks provides some offload, efficiency still declines with the increasing content driven by channel choice and recording windows. Costs skyrocket even further when predictable performance is required. Recording and playout functions must use separate processors and storage resources or virtual servers must be over-provisioned with complex load balancing to make this possible.The Edgeware D-VDN Origin Accelerator fully offloads and load balances all origin ingest and playout functions. To provide redundant storage and any content transformation needed for the different formats, simple, low-cost hardware and file systems can be used, even in services capable of simultaneously recording hundreds of channels and supporting tens of millions of consumers with highly predictable quality of experience (QoE).Story continues"As channel line-ups and content libraries grow, it was only logical for Edgeware to package our acceleration technology to solve scalability issues in the multiscreen headend," said Jon Haley, vice president, product marketing and business development at Edgeware. "We are very excited about the new D-VDN Origin Accelerator, particularly due to the increasing number of new cloud TV and DVR service providers that will benefit from it."Edgeware is demonstrating the key technologies and discussing details of the solution with existing and prospective customers at IBC in Amsterdam between September 13 and 17, 2013, IBC attendees can visit its Stand 14.C10.About Edgeware
Edgeware is the technology leader in distributed video delivery networks, designed to allow operators to monetize video services such as video on demand (VOD), time shift TV and network Personal Video Recorder (nPVR), as well as offering wholesale Content Delivery Networking (CDN) management services. Edgeware provides the video delivery systems needed to offer video services across managed and unmanaged networks, with the ability to reach any screen, at any time, with any content. Edgeware is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, with a U.S. office in Boxborough, Massachusetts.For more information, please visit www.edgeware.tv.