AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Sep 13, 2013) - IBC (IBC stand 14.C10) Edgeware, the technology leader in distributed video delivery, today announced its Orbit 3080, the newest addition to its lineup of high-performance, high-density network video delivery appliances.Building on the technology platform of the widely successful Orbit 3020, the 3080 is the next product increment to address customers with the need to reliably and cost-efficiently stream large amounts of video. Edgeware appliances provide deterministic wire speed performance for live, video on demand (VOD) and network digital video recorder (NDVR) applications and they support combinations of HTTP and RTSP traffic with uniformly low latency.Comparing high-level specifications, the Orbit 3080 provides a ten-fold increase in throughput per rack unit when compared to a high-performance, generic server. In reality the difference is even more drastic as ingest operations for cache misses, as well as management system and monitoring overheads, significantly impact generic server performance. The Orbit 3080 density advantage allows significant CAPEX and OPEX savings and provides the basis for greatly simplified installation and management. It also enables deeper and more effective network caching to minimize network costs and maximize end user quality of experience (QoE). "Today, peak audiences on the Internet are still tiny compared to broadcast TV," says Joachim Roos, CEO of Edgeware. "If Internet and cloud TV services are to compete, a drastic change in the delivery capacity is needed and that is exactly what this solution provides."Edgeware is using the IBC show in Amsterdam this week to demonstrate the key technologies and to discuss details of its solution with existing and prospective customers. IBC attendees can visit its Stand 14.C10.About Edgeware
Edgeware is the technology leader in distributed video delivery networks, designed to allow operators to monetize video services such as video on demand (VOD), time shift TV and network Personal Video Recorder (nPVR), as well as offering wholesale Content Delivery Networking (CDN) management services. Edgeware provides the video delivery systems needed to offer video services across managed and unmanaged networks, with the ability to reach any screen, at any time, with any content. Edgeware is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, with a U.S. office in Boxborough, Massachusetts.For more information, please visit www.edgeware.tv.