AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS--(Marketwired - Sep 13, 2013) -   iStreamPlanet announced today the general availability of Aventus, a cloud-based live video workflow platform designed to simplify the live video workflow associated with delivering premium live content to a global footprint of connected devices. Customers of the new solution include Microsoft Azure and NBC Sports Digital, who will use the platform to stream NBC Sports Group programming, including the NHL, Notre Dame Football, Premier League and the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics, among others.Aventus is built from the ground up for the cloud, taking full advantage of the cloud's virtualized environment to improve efficiencies and reduce costs in the live video workflow. Using Aventus, content owners, aggregators and distributors can accelerate their live online video strategies by reducing the complexity, time and resources required to provision live streaming channels for delivery of live events and live linear channels."Aventus is the culmination of over a dozen years of live streaming experiences," said Mio Babic, CEO and founder of iStreamPlanet. "We have worked together with the most high profile and innovative companies in media and technology to innovate and create Aventus. We are bringing to market the world's best cloud based, multiscreen, live video workflow solution."Aventus uses a cloud-based, virtualized environment to power the media workflow so that resources can be deployed dynamically, scaling workflow infrastructure depending on resource needs. It is designed and priced to work for one channel to hundreds in both public and private clouds, via SaaS or on-premises software license deployments. Because it is based on software, Aventus significantly reduces the cost of delivering live video compared to dedicated, interdependent hardware-based infrastructure."We have worked extensively with iStreamPlanet to stream hundreds of live events to meet viewer demand for live, multiscreen video," said Eric Black, VP of Technology at NBC Sports Group. "Aventus is a significant step forward in helping us overcome the challenges in scaling our live video streaming to meet consumer demand and market opportunity."Windows Azure iStreamPlanet will combine Aventus' scalability, flexibility, and cost effectiveness with Windows Azure's cloud services to power content acquisition, media processing, and management of live video workflows for premium content providers.More information and a video of Aventus in action are available at www.iStreamPlanet.com. About iStreamPlanet
iStreamPlanet is a premier, multiplatform video-workflow solutions provider committed to bringing high-quality streaming video experiences to connected audiences around the world. With more than a decade of live streaming video experience, iStreamPlanet has built a comprehensive offering of cloud-based video-workflow products and services for live event and live linear streaming channels. iStreamPlanet's innovative approach has been chosen by the world's leading sports, entertainment, and technology brands including NBC, Turner Broadcasting, Notre Dame Athletics, AT&T, Pac-12, and Microsoft. Founded in 2000, the privately held company is headquartered in Las Vegas with offices in Redmond, Wash., and London. More information can be found at www.istreamplanet.com.  All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.