OP-Pohjola Group Press release13.9.2013OP-Pohjola has concluded an agreement on card services with Equens, a company based in the Netherlands. According to the agreement, Equens will provide OP-Pohjola Group with services required in the issuance of OP-Visa Debit and OP-Visa Electron cards linked to a bank account. In addition to system services, the agreement covers support services related to cards. The agreement does not affect contractual relationships between OP-Pohjola and its customers, or the range of services provided by OP-Pohjola to its customers. - In card payments, Finland is a superpower where cards have established their position as an easy and safe means of payment. Co-operation with Equens is part of our plan to develop and improve the efficiency of our card services further as well as to improve our capability to respond to our customers` changing needs, states Kasimir Hirn, director of the cards and emerging payments business at OP-Pohjola. Equens is one of Europe`s largest card and payment processors, with an annual processing volume of 10.4 billion payments and 4.4 billion card transactions. The company operates over 61 million payment cards, 873,000 POS terminals and 21,000 ATMs. OP-Pohjola and Equens are already engaging in co-operations in SEPA payment transmission since 2008. The change of cooperation partner does not require any measures by OP-Pohjola`s customers. For more information, please contact: Kasimir Hirn, Head of Cards tel. +358 50 5325368OP-Pohjola GroupOP-Pohjola Group is Finland`s leading financial services group providing a unique range of banking, investment and insurance services. The Group`s mission is to promote the sustainable prosperity, well-being and security of its owner-members, customers and operating regions through its local presence. Its objective is to offer the best and most versatile package of loyal customer benefits on the market. OP-Pohjola Group consists of some 200 member cooperative banks and the Group`s central institution, OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative, with its subsidiaries and closely-related companies, the largest of which is the listed company Pohjola Bank plc. The Group has a staff of 13,000. OP-Pohjola Group posted earnings before tax of EUR 601 million in 2012 and had total assets of EUR 99.8 billion on 31 December 2012. The Group has over four million customers.This announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: Pohjola Pankki Oyj via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1728955