VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Sep 12, 2013) -
The Coal Association of Canada has announced that Robert H. Stan, former President and CEO of Grande Cache Coal, is the recipient of its 2013 CAC Award of Distinction, a new industry award which annually honours leaders in the coal industry."Throughout his 30 year career in the Canadian coal industry, Bob Stan has demonstrated a strong passion and commitment to the Canadian coal industry," said Ann Marie Hann, President of the Coal Association of Canada. "He's most known as the Founder, President and CEO of Grande Cache Coal, but for those who work in our industry, he's a people-focused, communicative executive with an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the coal business and a champion of coal and the benefits it brings to our economy and society."Over the span of his coal career, Mr. Stan worked in a variety of marketing and managerial positions with several coal companies, including Fording Coal, Teck Resources, Weststar Mining, and Smoky River Coal Limited. His greatest challenge and success came in 2001, as the founding shareholder and President and CEO of Grande Cache Coal, which he sold for over $1 billion to a consortium of Chinese and Japanese investors last year.Bob Stan is a strong advocate for the Canadian coal industry. He generously gave of his time over the years representing the Canadian coal industry through government advocacy, serving as the Canadian Representative on the Coal Industry Advisory Board to the International Energy Agency, and Chairing the Board of the Coal Association of Canada. He was also a frequent speaker and presenter at coal industry conferences and meetings worldwide. Mr. Stan is currently the President of Spruce Bluff Resources Ltd.The CAC Award of Distinction recognizes demonstrated leadership in the Canadian coal industry. It is a new award being presented by the Coal Association of Canada for the first time this year at the 2013 Conference and Trade Show.For more information on the Award or to nominate a coal industry leader for 2014, visit the Coal Association of Canada's Award of Distinction web page.Note to editors:Media interested in attending the 2013 CAC Conference and Trade Show which takes place Sept. 11-13 at the Westin Bayshore Vancouver, must be accredited. The media registration form can be downloaded at the CAC Conference Media Page.