T-Mobile to Offer iPhone 5s and iPhone 5cT-Mobile Defies Wireless Industry Norms with Amazing Prices, Debuts iPhone 5s for $99 down and iPhone 5c for $0 down - with no annual service contracts required; T-Mobile 4G LTE approaching nationwide coverageBELLEVUE, Wash. - September 12, 2013 -T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: TMUS) today announced it will offer iPhone 5s, the most forward-thinking smartphone in the world, and iPhone 5c, the most colorful iPhone yet, beginning Friday, September 20.In another Un-carrier move aimed at shaking up the wireless industry for consumers, T-Mobile will offer iPhone 5s starting at an introductory price of $99 down with 24 equal monthly payments of $22.91* for the 16GB model, and iPhone 5c will start at an introductory price of $0 down with 24 equal monthly payments of $22* for the 16GB model, with a Simple Choice Plan from T-Mobile. Customers can pre-order the iPhone 5c beginning Friday, September 13 at www.t-mobile.com at 12:01 a.m. PDT.T-Mobile differentiates itself by providing customers with outstanding wireless experiences built on its dramatically simple, no annual service contract Simple Choice Plan for unlimited talk, text and Web on a nationwide 4G network, and its well-regarded JUMP!(TM) early upgrade program. The Un-carrier promise has really struck a chord because consumers have long needed a wireless company to look out for their interests and change the rules."As the Un-carrier, T-Mobile has the backs of consumers," said John Legere, president and CEO of T-Mobile US, Inc. "We tossed annual service contract requirements and un-leashed JUMP! to provide more choice, flexibility and affordability. Now, with T-Mobile, you can enjoy your iPhone the way it was meant to be enjoyed - without restriction."T-Mobile also announced today its blazing-fast 4G LTE network now reaches 180 million people in 154 metro areas across the United States. The company is quickly building toward nationwide 4G LTE coverage, in addition to its nationwide 4G HSPA+ network, which reaches 228 million people. iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c customers can enjoy a consistently outstanding 4G wireless experience, seamlessly connecting to both T-Mobile`s nationwide 4G HSPA+ and rapidly expanding 4G LTE network.With the launch of the new iPhone 5s, iPhone 5c and iOS 7, Apple is ushering in the next generation of mobile computing, delivering an incredible new hardware and software experience that only Apple could create. iPhone 5s redefines the best smartphone experience in the world with amazing new features all packed into a remarkable thin and light design, including the Apple-designed A7 64-bit chip, all-new 8 megapixel iSight camera with True Tone flash and introducing Touch ID, an innovative way to simply and securely unlock your phone with just the touch of a finger. iPhone 5c features an all new-design, packed with features people know and love like the beautiful 4-inch Retina display, blazing fast performance of the A6 chip, and the 8 megapixel iSight camera - all while delivering great battery life.** iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c both offer more LTE bands*** than any other smartphone in the world and include all-new FaceTime HD cameras.iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c feature iOS 7, the most significant iOS update since the original iPhone, featuring a stunning new user interface, completely redesigned with an elegant color palette, distinct, functional layers and subtle motion that make it feel more alive. iOS 7 has hundreds of great new features, including Control Center, Notification Center, improved Multitasking, AirDrop, enhanced Photos, Safari, Siri and introduces iTunes Radio, a free Internet radio service based on the music you listen to on iTunes.The Simple Choice Plan from T-Mobile starts with a base rate of $50 per month for unlimited talk, text and Web with up to 500MB of high-speed data on its advanced nationwide network. Customers can get up to 2.5GB of high-speed data for $10 more per month per line or unlimited 4G data with up to 2.5GB of tethering for an additional $20 per month per line. Customers can add a second phone line for $30 per month, and each additional line is just $10 per month. No caps, no overages on T-Mobile`s network and no restrictive annual service contracts.Story continuesJUMP! offers the freedom to upgrade to a new device more frequently and affordably, and includes handset protection that helps to protect against malfunction, damage, loss or theft - all for just $10 per month, per phone (plus taxes and fees).T-Mobile is also the only U.S. wireless provider offering nationwide HD Voice for crystal-clear calling on iPhone 5s, iPhone 5c and iPhone 5****.iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c will be available at participating T-Mobile retail locations beginning Sept. 20 at 8 a.m. local time. iPhone 5s and iPhone 5c will also be available online at www.t-mobile.com Sept. 20 at 8 a.m. PDT.Additional Model Pricing Information:T-Mobile will offer iPhone 5s at an introductory price of $199 down with 24 monthly payments of $22.91* for the 32GB model and $299 down with 24 monthly payments of $22.91* for the 64GB model with a Simple Choice Plan from T-Mobile. iPhone 5c will also be available at an introductory price of $99 down with 24 monthly payments of $22.91* for the 32GB model with a Simple Choice Plan from T-Mobile.For more information on iPhone, please visit: www.apple.com/iphone.About T-Mobile US, Inc.: As America`s Un-carrier, T-Mobile US, Inc. (NYSE: "TMUS") is redefining the way consumers and businesses buy wireless services through leading product and service innovation. The company`s advanced nationwide 4G and 4G LTE network delivers outstanding wireless experiences for customers who are unwilling to compromise on quality and value. Based in Bellevue, Wash., T-Mobile US operates its flagship brands, T-Mobile and MetroPCS. It currently serves approximately 44 million wireless subscribers and provides products and services through 70,000 points of distribution. For more information, please visit http://www.t-mobile.com.Forward-Looking Statement: This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Any statements made herein that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about T-Mobile US, Inc.`s plans, strategy, expected network modernization and other advancements, are forward-looking statements. Generally, forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "anticipate," "expect," "suggests," "plan," "believe," "intend," "estimates," "targets," "views," "may," "will," "forecast," and other similar expressions. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, are based on current assumptions and expectations, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could affect future results and cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: our ability to compete in the highly competitive U.S. wireless telecommunications industry; adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies and markets; our significant capital commitments and the capital expenditures required to affect our business plan; our ability to adapt to future changes in technology, enhance existing offerings, and introduce new offerings to address customers` changing demands; changes in legal and regulatory requirements, including any change or increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our network; our ability to successfully maintain and improve our network, and the possibility of incurring additional costs in doing so; major equipment failures; severe weather conditions or other force majeure events; and other risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2013. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.# # #* If you cancel wireless service, remaining balance on phone becomes due. 0% APR O.A.C. for well-qualified buyers. Total for    iPhone 5s 16GB $648.84, 32GB $748.84, 64GB $848.84; Total for iPhone 5c 16GB $528, 32GB $648.48. Not available in the    District of Columbia. Limited time offer; subject to change.** Battery life depends on device settings, usage and other factors. Actual results vary.*** LTE is available through select carriers. Network speeds are dependent on carrier networks, check with your carrier for details.**** To experience HD Voice, both parties on the call must use capable smartphones on T-Mobile`s HD Voice-enabled network.No annual contract means no term service contract required; terms and conditions still apply.Coverage is not available in some areas. See www.T-Mobile.com/coverage for details.This announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients.The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of theinformation contained therein.Source: T-Mobile USA via Thomson Reuters ONEHUG#1729063