CALGARY, ALBERTA--(Marketwired - Jul 3, 2013) -
MENA Hydrocarbons Inc. ("MENA" or the "Company") (TSX VENTURE:MNH) today announced the resignation of Mr. Kelsey Clark as Corporate Secretary of MENA effective June 29, 2013, and the appointment of Mr. Jason Bednar as Corporate Secretary of the Company. MENA thanks Mr. Clark for his service and contribution to the Company.The Company was unable to call and hold its shareholder meeting by June 30, 2013. The board of directors of the Company has now called its annual and special meeting of shareholders to be held on Thursday, August 29, 2013. The record date for notice and voting at the meeting is July 26, 2013. Further details concerning the shareholder meeting will be announced in due course.The board of directors is continuing with its process to identify, examine and consider strategic alternatives with the view to enhancing shareholder value. Strategic alternatives may include, but are not limited to, sale of the corporation, merger or other business combination, recapitalization, sale of all or a portion of the Company's assets, or any combination thereof. At this time, the board of directors has decided not to establish a special committee or retain a financial advisor to assist it with this process but may revisit making such appointments in the future depending on the circumstances at the time. It is the Company's current intention not to disclose developments with respect to the strategic review process until the board of directors has approved a specific transaction or otherwise determines that disclosure is necessary or appropriate. The Company cautions that there are no assurances or guarantees that the process will result in a transaction or, if a transaction is undertaken, the terms or timing of such a transaction. The Company has not yet set a definite schedule to complete its evaluation or process.About MENA Hydrocarbons MENA Hydrocarbons is an international oil and gas company focused on growing an asset base of production, development and high impact exploration in the Middle East and North Africa region. In Egypt, MENA owns and operates the development lease for the Lagia oil field, a 32 square kilometre onshore block located on the Sinai Peninsula, directly adjacent to the Gulf of Suez. In Syria, MENA owns a 30% participating interest in Block 9 in Syria, a 10,032 square kilometre onshore block prospective for crude oil, natural gas and condensate. In the United States, MENA owns 6,242 gross acres (with an 81.2% average working interest) in Northwestern Montana with light/medium oil reserves. MENA's shares currently trade on the TSX Venture Exchange under the symbol "MNH".Forward looking informationThis news release contains forward-looking information relating to the appointment of a special committee and retaining a financial advisor to assist the board of directors with its strategic review process, holding of the shareholder meeting and other statements that are not historical facts. Such forward-looking information is subject to important risks, uncertainties and assumptions. The results or events predicated in this forward-looking information may differ materially from actual results or events. As a result, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking information.Forward-looking information is based on certain factors and assumptions regarding, among other things, the Company maintaining its stock exchange listing; the availability of capital on acceptable terms or at all and the timing such capital is needed; the impact of increasing competition; the general stability of the economic and political environments in which the Company operates or owns interests; the timely receipt of any required regulatory approvals; the ability of the Company to obtain qualified staff, equipment and services in a timely and cost efficient manner; drilling results; the ability of the operator of the projects which the Company has an interest in to operate the field in a safe, efficient and effective manner; the ability of the Company to obtain financing on acceptable terms; field production rates and decline rates; the ability to replace and expand oil and natural gas reserves through acquisition, development of exploration; the timing and costs of pipeline, storage and facility construction and expansion and the ability of the Company to secure adequate product transportation; future oil and natural gas prices; currency, exchange and interest rates; the regulatory framework regarding royalties, taxes and environmental matters in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates; and the ability of the Company to successfully market its oil and natural gas products, and other similar matters. While the Company considers these assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available to it, they may prove to be incorrect.Story continuesForward looking-information is subject to certain factors, including risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is currently expected. These factors include risks associated with the Company's ability to successfully maintain its stock exchange listing, the availability of capital on acceptable terms or at all and the timing such capital is needed, instability of the economic and political environments in which the Company operates or owns interests, oil and gas exploration, development, exploitation, production, marketing and transportation, loss of markets, volatility of commodity prices, currency fluctuations, imprecision of reserve estimates, environmental risks, competition from other producers, inability to retain drilling rigs and other services, incorrect assessment of the value of acquisitions, the inability to settle the definitive terms of the farmout arrangements, failure to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, delays resulting from or inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and ability to access sufficient capital from internal and external sources, reliance on key personnel, regulatory risks and delays, including risks relating to the acquisition of necessary licenses and permits, environmental risks and insurance risks.You should not place undue importance on forward-looking information and should not rely upon this information as of any other date. While the Company may elect to, the Company is under no obligation and does not undertake to update this information at any particular time, except as required by law.