ESPOO, FINLAND--(Marketwired - Jul 3, 2013) -Nokia 207, Nokia 208 and Nokia 208 Dual SIM offer performance, versatility and qualityNokia today expanded its range of classically designed mobile phones with the launch of three new, high-performing handsets. The Nokia 207, Nokia 208 and Nokia 208 Dual SIM combine the familiar 'candybar' design with Nokia's signature bold colors and 3.5G-capable Internet speeds. Popular social apps, smarter imaging and productivity features such as Internet-sharing and Mail for Exchange support make these phones some of the most versatile at their price point; perfect for people balancing work and play."The Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 are designed for people who like a classic phone and traditional keypad but don't want to miss out on smartphone experiences, like staying connected to social media and accessing the Internet," said Timo Toikkanen, executive vice president, Mobile Phones, Nokia. "As our most affordable 3G devices yet, the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 offer a perfect balance of performance, features and quality."Smarter features deliver greater versatilityThe Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 are ideal for use on-the-go, with a familiar, alphanumeric keypad for speedy texts and messaging, and Mail for Exchange for staying on top of work email and calendar appointments. The Transfer app, available today in the Nokia Store, allows people to sync contacts directly from their smartphone* and transforms the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 into secondary or companion devices, perfect for travel. The Nokia 208 Dual SIM has the added benefit of Nokia's Easy Swap technology, allowing people to change SIM cards without turning off the device, to take advantage of more favorable tariffs.Consistent with devices across the Nokia Mobile Phones portfolio, the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 offer faster and more affordable mobile Internet experiences. Support for 3G coupled with the data compression available with Nokia Xpress Browser help people enjoy rich mobile experiences at lower cost. These experiences include top social apps such as WhatsApp**, Facebook and Twitter, alongside video streaming through YouTube and Vuclip. For even greater versatility, people can also use the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 as a portable modem, simply by connecting the device to their laptop via a USB cable for Internet sharing anywhere, anytime.Playful imaging features and Nokia durability add to versatilityThe smart camera features of the Nokia 208 make taking pictures more enjoyable, with voice-guided self-portrait, sequential shot and panorama mode giving people more playful imaging options. Sharing photos is a breeze with the Slam feature that allows people to share images with another Bluetooth-enabled device in just a few clicks.The Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 deliver outstanding battery life - up to 33 days of standby time for the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208, and up to 20 days of standby time for the Nokia 208 Dual SIM - helping people stay connected for longer. Easy to clean and scratch-proof, the handsets are durable for everyday use as well as more extreme conditions, such as hot or dusty environments.The Nokia 208 will be available in single SIM and Easy Swap Dual SIM variants. The Nokia 207 will be available as a single SIM option without a camera in Europe. Available colours include red, cyan, yellow, white and black. The estimated retail price for the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 is 68 USD (52 Euros) and they are expected to start shipping during third quarter of 2013.Read more about the Nokia 207 and Nokia 208 on Nokia Conversations: http://conversations.nokia.com/?p=126841* Including the Nokia Lumia range, Windows Phone 8 and most Android smartphones.** Initially available for Nokia 208 Single SIM variant.About NokiaNokia is a global leader in mobile communications whose products have become an integral part of the lives of people around the world. Every day, more than 1.3 billion people use their Nokia to capture and share experiences, access information, find their way or simply to speak to one another. Nokia's technological and design innovations have made its brand one of the most recognized in the world. For more information, visit http://www.nokia.com/about-nokia.This announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients. The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: NOKIA via Thomson Reuters ONE[HUG#1713846]