Ford Motor Company (F) July 2013 U.S. Sales Call August 1, 2013 10:00 AM ETExecutivesErich Merkle - U.S. Sales AnalystKen Czubay - VP, U.S. Marketing, Sales and Service;Ellen Hughes-Cromwick - Chief EconomistAnalystsJohn Murphy - BofA Merrill LynchColin Langan - UBSRod Lache - Deutsche BankPatrick Archambault - Goldman SachsKarl Henkel - Detroit NewsDee-Ann Durbin - Associated PressCraig Trudell - Bloomberg NewsBrent Snavely - Detroit Free PressOperatorGood day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Ford monthly sales conference call. My name is Cilia and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Erich Merkle, U.S. Sales Analyst. Please proceed.Erich MerkleThank you, Cilia and good morning and welcome to Ford’s July 2013 sales call. I think July can best be described as robust for the industry and for Ford. Upon review of preliminary data this morning we estimate that total vehicle sales including medium and heavy trucks came in at approximately 1.35 million vehicles in July. This equates to a total SAR in the low 16 million vehicle range for the month translating into approximately a 14% increase compared to July of last year.Much of the strength we saw in June carried over into July. We estimate that retail SAR came in at the mid to upper end of the 13 million vehicle range making July a very strong month. When we take a look at some of the details, we saw a continuation of trends that we have discussed in the past few calls with both small vehicles and full sized pickups leading the industry this past month.The strength in small cars continued as consumers keep downsizing with small cars coming in at 22% of the industry in July. Full sized pickups represented slightly more than 12% of the industry benefiting from both pent up demand and the continued recovery in the construction industry. We expect pickup sales to increase approximately 24% over year ago level, while Ford retail sales surged 19% in July lean inventories on some of our hottest vehicles muted the increase. And here to provide a little more perspective around what we saw on July is Ken Czubay. Ken?Ken CzubayAgain some very tight inventories for our most popular models. Ford Motor Company delivered an 11% year-over-year gain with a 193,715 vehicles sold in July, with a 155,970 vehicles sold at retail we had our strongest July retail month since 2005, an increase of 19%, which likely outpaced industry retail sales for the month. As we have said on the previous calls Fusion supply remains very tight, with Focus to becoming markedly tighter in July. As was the case in June Ford continues to drive sheer gains on the coast.Based on the latest pulled retail registration data, Ford brand retail share gains on the East Coast and West Coast combined are up almost 1 full percentage point. Ford brand coastal share point gains are expanding faster than any automotive brand in the United States. Much of the credit goes to Escape, small cars and our hybrid sales performance in these key areas of the country.As Erich mentioned before Ford's product portfolio today has the ability to meet the trends we're seeing for smaller fuel efficient vehicles while also hitting the cyclical recovery in full size pickups. Ford's small car sales including Fiesta, Focus and C-Max Hybrids totaled 27,131 in July, representing a 32% gain over last year. Once again providing us with our best July monthly small car sales performance since 2000.Fiesta retail sales in the large and small car market in the country, Los Angeles increased 71% in July, while the San Francisco region posted a 79% increase. Fiesta retail sales are now growing at more than five times the rate of the overall sub-compact segment in California. We're really excited about the redesigned Fiesta, the upcoming introduction of the high performance Fiesta ST in our award winning 1.0 liter EcoBoost engine later this year. Fiesta conquest rate continues at levels above 60%, with the cars largest conquest coming from Toyota and Honda. Fiesta is our bestselling vehicle with millennial buyers. Two-thirds of them return to buy another Ford product, usually a Focus or Escape.Fusion retail sales were up almost 70% in July in California. Miami saw a 47% increase with low inventory and fast days supply to turn on dealer life. Fusion Titanium is turning at just 12 days in Miami, 14 days in San Francisco and 16 days in Los Angeles. Fusion Hybrid is turning at slightly more than 10 days in the4se markets. As we have mentioned Fusion inventory will remain very tight this summer until 1,400 new workers begin production at the Flat Rock assembly plant, this fall to improve availability. Inventory will be tight particularly in the west and southeast regions of first country.Looking at utilities Escape had yet another strong month in July with 22,343 vehicles sold its best July retail sales ever. With Coastal retail sales up 26% this year Escape retail share has increased in New York region by three retail share point since 2008, faster than any domestic or full line Japanese brand. In New York, Escape’s competitive conquest request is 54% with Honda at its top competitive conquest brand. Explorer sales were up again in July with 12,742 vehicles sold. Explorer is now turning at 25 days with markets like New York and San Francisco reporting 27 and 22 days respectively. Explorer remains very much in demand. The high end Explorer Sport is now taking just 13 days to turn on dealer lots.F-Series continue to roll in July with 60,449 trucks sold, an increase of 23% from year ago. In just three months our dealers have sold a total of 200,000 F-Series pickups just as we enter the traditional truck season. We’re moving tremendous numbers of trucks through our plants and through our dealers right now, and we will have the addition of the third crew at Kansas City truck plant to increase output of the F-150.Taking the look at Lincoln and MKZ this month, MKZ retail sales were up 3% in July, going against a high sell-down comparison month last year. MKZ Hybrid turn rates are some of the fastest in the Ford lineup, and we’re seeing Conquest rates for the MKZ Hybrid that are 50% higher than the non-hybrid vehicles. Approximately two thirds of our retail sales volume in the Los Angeles region is made up of MKZ Hybrid which is a big factor in our decision to increase our production mix of MKZ Hybrid to 40% for the ’14 model year.Now, one final note, we’ve been working really hard with our dealer in Ford Credit to take our certified pre-own sales to the next level, July month, the sixth consecutive month of all time sales for us. This will be an important part of our residual value building story.That’s a look at Ford and Lincoln. Now, let’s turn things over to Ellen for an update on the economic front. Ellen?Ellen Hughes-CromwickGreat, thanks a lot Ken. Well, since our last monthly call in early July, the economic indicators really have continued to improve. In fact last month March, the beginning of the fifth year of this economic expansion, the economy has grown at an annual rate of 2.2% since the expansion began in the second quarter of 2009. The pace of advanced during the expansion has been uneven and slow by comparison to the prior expansions. The automotive sector of our economy has now contributed greatly to overall growth during this expansion. Auto (Output) by the way has contributed over 15% to overall GDP growth since mid-2009.Now, let’s look at some of the key highlights for the month. In the second quarter, GDP grew in the annual rate of 1.7% compared to the first quarter, so we’re up about 1.4% on a year-over-year basis. Manufacturing wears and shipments are now expanding at a faster rate, this bodes well for second half improvements in the economy. The housing sector recovery is healthy and broad base now across the country. Job and income gains are positive and the interest rates remain relatively low. On net the U.S. economy is projected to grow in the 2% to 2.5% range this year.Now, let’s look at some of the details. Just a moment ago, we received the U.S. Purchasing Managers' Indexes for the month of July, a key leading economic indicator. It increased to a rating of 55.4. That is the highest rating since June of 2011. Importantly, the employment component of the Purchasing Managers' Indexes sore to a rating of about 55. That was a substantial advance. The other point I wanted to really emphasize is if you look at non-defense capital goods wears, excluding aircraft again another key leading indicator. That is now growing over 6% compared to a year ago. Bookings are now running nearly $70 billion a month. That is higher now than the peak before the financial crisis.Let’s take a look at some of the housing related data at this point. Now, if you look at home prices, the Case-Shiller Home Price Indices is up 12.2% in May. That comes out with somewhat of a lad but all 20 cities are now posting increases. New home sales are up about 38% in June, and very tight supply of new homes, just at 3.9 months. That’s lower than the historical average.For existing home sales, June was another good month with sales up 15.2% compared to a year ago on housing starts and permits again another good month in June up 10.4% for starts and 16.1% for permits on a year over year basis. To round out some of the economic indicators the July University of Michigan Consumer Settlement Reading was up to a reading of 85.1 now this is somewhat of a watershed as it is only a few points just below the long run historical average. These readings had moved up in the last three months and signal ongoing gains in consumer spending during the months ahead.And then finally just to look a little bit at the employment picture tomorrow we will receive the July employment report but this morning we got the four week moving average for unemployment claims and that is now at 341,250 for the week of July 27th and that is now comfortably below the 350 watermark and by the way just looking at year to date average monthly job gains we are now above 200,000 a month. Again tomorrow we’ll receive the July employment report.So just to recap as Erich mentioned earlier July total industry sales look like they are coming in, in the 16 million unit range again that’s seasonally adjusted annual rate including medium and heavy duty trucks our full year call for the industry still is in that 15.5 million to 16 million unit range. So with that summary let me turn it back to Erich, Erich?Erich MerkleThank you, Ellen. Taking care of a few housekeeping items before we get started with the questions. We’ll look at our fleets this month as a percent of total. Ford’s fleet this month as a percent of total sales was 22% overall, 12% was commercial, 5% of our total sales was from government and 5% of our total sales represents daily rental. This compares to July of 2012 one year ago 27% of our total sales were comprised of fleet, that’s 12% of our total sales for commercial, 5% of our total sales for government and 10% of our total sales at that time for daily rental. When we look at calendar year to date, calendar year to date our fleet as a percent of our total sales is at 31%. 13% of out total sales year to date are commercial, 5% are government and 13% are daily rental.When you compare it to year to dates though July 2012 we had 33% of our total sales were fleet, 14% of our total sales came from commercial, 5% of our total sales was government and 14% of our total sales in July year to date in 2012 was made up of daily rental. One of the things that you’ll see here is when you take a look at our fleets more than 50% of our fleet comes from commercial and government sales, that’s more than any other auto maker in the industry. So with that in mind, Celia we’d like to open the call up and we’re going to start with the analysts first please.Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with Ford Motor Company CEO