General Motors Company (GM) Q2 2013 Sales Conference Call August 1, 2013 11:00 AM ETExecutivesJim Cain – Senior Manager, Sales and Executive Communications, General MotorsKurt McNeil – VP, Sales Operations, USMustafa Mohatarem – Chief EconomistDon Johnson – VP, Chevrolet Sales and ServiceBrian Sweeney – VP, Buick GMCEd Peper – VP, Fleet and Commercial SalesAnalystsAdam Jonas – Morgan StanleyJohn Murphy – Bank of America Merrill LynchRod Lache – Deutsche BankColin Langan – UBS SecuritiesBrian Sponheimer – Gabelli & CompanyTodd Lassa – Automobile MagazineDee-Ann Durbin – The Associated PressTim Higgins – Bloomberg NewsMelissa Burden – Detroit NewsMichael Wayland – MLiveDavid Zoia – WardsAutoTed Reed – TheStreetOperatorLadies and gentlemen thank you for standing by. Welcome to the General Motors Company July 2013 U.S. Sales Conference Call. During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder this conference is being recorded Thursday, August 1, 2013.I would now like to turn the conference over to Jim Cain, General Motors, Communications. Please go ahead.Jim CainGood morning everybody and thank you for joining our July sales conference call. I will be following the same format we always do every month. We’ll begin with some remarks from Kurt McNeil, our U.S. Vice President of Sales Operations and then we’ll open up for Q&A and we’ll go for about 45 minutes or so. I would remind everybody that our discussion today is covered by a forward-looking disclosure statement which you can read in our press release which hopefully you all have in possession it’s available on gm.com on the investor page and in our media relations website.With that said, Kurt the floor is yours.Kurt McNeilThank you, Jim. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. Today General Motors is announcing July sales of 234,071 vehicles in the United States that’s up 23% at retail and 16% in total versus a year ago. As we walk through our overall results you’ll see that GM’s performance was very well balanced. That’s true whether you dig into key segments or breakout individual brands and name plates.For example both passenger and truck sales were up sharply year-over-year. We’re talking about a 24% increase for cars and a 16% increase for pickup vans and large SUVs combined; crossover sales grew by about 6%. In addition all four of our brands posted double-digit year-over-year sales increases.Finally, vehicles like the Chevrolet Cruze, GMC Terrain, Chevrolet Equinox continue to set sales record. The Cruze and Terrain has their best July sales ever and the Equinox had its best July retail sales ever. Importantly this is happening at the same time that new name plates like the Chevrolet Spark, the Buick Encore and the Cadillac ATS are being discovered by GM and importantly non-GM customers. Spark and Encore had their best month since their launch.The combination is helping us grow a little faster than the industry even as we reposition vehicles like the Chevrolet Impala and the Cadillac CTS and temporarily exit some segments like midsize pickups. When all are said and done this month we expect our total market share to be in the mid 17% range, which is up close to a half a point from a year ago.Our retail market share should be up about one full point in the 16% range. This keeps us on track to increase our share for the calendar year. For the month Chevrolet passenger cars made a huge contribution to our retail share with sales increasing 25%, thanks to higher Spark, Cruze, Malibu, Impala Camaro deliveries. Our sedans were very bright spots.Cruze retail sales were up 24%, Malibu retail was up 31% and Impala retail was up 77%. Impala also gave the entire GM team a shot in the arm when we learn that the cars now consumer reports highest rated sedan with scores comparable to vehicles costing as much as $20,000 more.Robust demand for pickups has been another big part of the GM story, so let’s dig a little deeper into those details. The start total sales of GM full-size pickups were up 44% from a year ago with about 85% of our sales coming from 2013 models that’s per our plan.Retail deliveries were up even more; sales were 51% higher versus a year ago. This includes a 107% increase in full-size pickup deliveries to our small business customers and that drove a 61% increase in small business sales.Story continuesThese great results help drive the full-size pickup segment share of the retail industry to about 11.8%. That’s up slightly from June and up about 1.4 points from last July, which was before the housing recovery really got into hide here.Our ATPs for the GMT900 models have been stable month-to-month and our GMT900 stock levels are also in great shape with about a 140,000 units in dealer inventory that’s about a 68 days’ supply.All of this is a long way of saying that we are exactly on track with the transition plan that we’ve outlined for you on past calls. So, how are we doing with the new truck? Dan Akerson stated on our second quarter earnings call, things are going well so far.In July we delivered close to 9,000 2014 light-duty crew cabs, these are the higher end trucks with four full-size doors, a few days to go we began shipping the double cab models which have four smaller doors and later this summer we’ll begin shipping the regular cab models.As we bring in new body styles and new powertrain configurations to the market including our class leading V6 will find our natural level in terms of transaction prices. We’re not going to share our ATP performance at this early stage on the launch, suffice it to say that we expect to earn higher ATPs over time through a combination of strong mix, higher option take rates and lower incentives.As we look down the road, even more new products are coming to all four brands and they will be launching into a healthy market. The light vehicles are now stands in the 15.4 million range for the year which is near the high-end of our 15 million to 15.5 million unit outlook.With the strength we’re seeing in the household wealth, consumer settlement, housing and manufacturing we think there is definitely more room to grow this year. Exactly how much upside there is will depend on factors like the job market and interest rates. We’ll obviously have to wait and see, but we’re optimistic.With that said, it’s now time for the Q&A portion of the call. Joining us our Global President for Chevrolet, Alan Batey; Don Johnson, Vice President of Chevrolet Sales and Service; Brian Sweeney, Vice President of Buick GMC, Sales and Service; Ed Peper, Vice President of Fleet and Commercial Sales; and our Chief Economist, Mustafa Mohatarem.Okay let’s take some question. Operator?Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with General Motors Company CEO