MUNDELEIN, IL--(Marketwired - August 03, 2013) -
Nearly 500 Medline employees, company executives, friends and family members filled the Allendale Association campus in Lake Villa, Ill. today to put their painting and landscaping skills to work for a good cause. Allendale Association, a non-profit organization dedicated to the treatment and advocacy for troubled children, youth and their families, was selected for this year's "Medline Makes a Difference Day" event. Medline volunteers spent time on a variety of beautification and remodeling projects at the Allendale campus where up to 150 boys and girls live and receive treatment. Projects included painting indoors and outdoors, planting, mulching and cleaning. Those with a creative flair also designed canvas murals that will hang throughout the campus hallways and living spaces. In addition, volunteers built picnic tables, benches and owl houses and constructed a half-mile long walking trail using 350 tons of material."The Allendale Association provides a crucial service for our community's children and their families. We're thrilled that our energetic group of volunteers had the opportunity to roll up their sleeves and support this important organization," said Jim Abrams, chief operating officer at Medline. "With our headquarters in Lake County, and Illinois roots dating back more than 100 years, we should all do our part to help our neighbors and communities however we can." "We are pleased to have great corporate partners right here in the area who believe in making a difference for the children and families we serve," said Mary Shahbazian, president of Allendale Association. "Our work results in relationships repaired, in hope restored and in a new vision for a better life plan."This event marks the 7th annual "Medline Makes a Difference Day" to support local organizations and schools. Since the program's inception, employees and family members have contributed more than 24,000 volunteer hours to the local community in Northern Illinois. This is also the seventh year Medline has collaborated with Chicago Cares, an organization focused on building volunteer experiences, on this community outreach event. About MedlineAs the nation's largest privately held manufacturer and distributor of health care products, Medline manufactures and distributes more than 350,000 products to hospitals, extended care facilities, surgery centers, physician offices, home care agencies and providers, and retailers. Named one of the country's "Best and Brightest Companies to Work For," Medline is headquartered in Mundelein, Ill. and has more than 1,100 dedicated sales representatives to support its broad product line and cost management services. For more information on Medline, go to www.medline.com.About The Allendale AssociationFounded in 1897, the Allendale Association is a private, not-for-profit organization dedicated to excellence and innovation in the care, treatment, education and advocacy for young people who suffer from the profound impact of devastating life circumstances resulting in severe emotional and behavioral disabilities. Allendale is one of the largest residential treatment centers in Illinois for children and adolescents from ages 7 to 21. Currently, the Allendale Association serves more than 1,260 children, adolescents, young adults and families in need annually through its counseling, special education, foster care and residential programs. For more information about the Allendale Association, please visit www.allendale4kids.org.About Chicago CaresFounded in 1991 by Leslie Bluhm and Mary Prchal, Chicago Cares is a nonprofit organization that has mobilized more than 450,000 volunteers to meet Chicago's most challenging needs. As the leading service organization in the city, Chicago Cares creates programs that foster civic engagement by educating and empowering volunteers to be agents of change. With 250 monthly group service projects, corporate programs and annual events, our model connects needs with action. www.chicagocares.org.The following files are available for download: Medline Makes a Difference Day 2013