"The Little-Known Wealth Secret of Bill Gates, Donald Trump, and One-Third of The Richest Men on Earth"This wealth secret is amazingly simple. It has nothing to do with buying options contracts, short-selling, flipping real estate, or anything difficult like that. Truth is... you don't even need a deep understanding of the markets.It sounds impossible, but there's a small group of stocks that enjoy the support of "Rich Parents." These special companies benefit from the same preferential access to loans, financial support and profitable business advice as the world's wealthiest families.Most importantly, because of their special advantages they could make you a small fortune in the stock market, as they've done for investors over the last 10 years...Read on to learn more about  Top 10 Stocks' "Rich Parents" stocks and how you can benefit from the little-known wealth secret of Bill Gates, Donald Trump, and one-third of The richest men on Earth:The Safest Way To Earn High Yields From Emerging Markets[More from StreetAuthority.com: ]Stocks in developing economies hold great long-term upside, but this asset class is less risky and should fare better in the months ahead.The Biggest Myth Being Pushed By Mainstream Financial MediaNot everyone will follow this advice, but I'm convinced that those who do will be wealthier investors because of it.How The 'Rothschild Secret' Can Lead To 529% ReturnsOn the surface, an heir of the secretive Rothschild family appears to have built his fortune in the metals and mining industries. But look a little deeper and you'll see that he's actually had a special advantage that you can apply to investing today.[More from StreetAuthority.com: ]This Bank Stock Could Return 13.5% In 6 MonthsThe recovering economy has been good news for this firm's stock, which has remained strong even amid the Fed's tapering talk.The Key To Life-Changing Wealth Most Investors Don't Want To HearNot everyone will follow this advice, but I'm convinced that those who do will be wealthier investors because of it.[More from StreetAuthority.com: ]This 'Rich Parent' Stock Has Beaten The S&P 5-to-1Sometimes having a 'Rich Parent' can be the best way to grow a company quickly... making investors rich in the process.The Incredible Wealth Secret That Helped Trump, Gates And Welch Make A FortuneI am willing to bet you've never heard of this wealth secret... but it's one of the most important out there. Related ArticlesThe Wealth-Building Stock Trait Buffett Mentioned 20 Times...Stocks That Outlast Wars... Recessions... Financial Panics...The 3 Most Valuable Traits Of Any Winning Stock