For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 9, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT), Facebook, Inc. (FB), DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA), Viacom Inc. (VIA) and Time Warner Inc. (TWX).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Tuesday’s Analyst Blog: Wal-Mart to Expand Digital ServiceWal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) has announced its decision to expand its Disc-to-Digital service, an in-store service to allow consumers to access the digital versions of DVDs and Blu-ray discs containing their favorite movies. In addition, Walmart plans to launch a new application for the users of Facebook, Inc. (FB) to provide easier access to exclusive movie titles and an opportunity to share and choose titles, thus influencing in-store and online purchase decisions.The expansion of this disc-to-digital service will enhance the value of movie ownership and provide easier access through Internet-connected devices. The service will be available at Wal-Mart stores from this month onward. Consumers will be charged $2 for the conversion of standard DVDs and Blu-ray discs and $5 for upgrading standard DVDs to High-Definition (HD).Further, Walmart is giving its customers 10 pre-selected movies free of cost when they open a VUDU account or register for an UltraViolet account or connect to an existing account.The company started this service in April 2012. Walmart teamed up with six major Hollywood studios, including DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA), Viacom Inc. (VIA)’s Paramount Home Media Distribution and Time Warner Inc. (TWX)’s Warner Bros, in order to provide this in-store digital service.In addition, the company used Vudu video-streaming service to convert the discs to digital service through the movie industry’s UltraViolet technology. The UltraViolet system, launched by Warner Bros., allows consumers to watch movies on multiple devices including televisions, tablets, smartphones, gaming consoles and more.Also, Walmart, in partnership with Hollywood's largest studios, developed the Walmart Entertainment Facebook App to provide more than 26 million Facebook fans with exclusive movie content for just $5.This app will enable its users to rate movies, watch exclusive behind-the-scenes footage and even vote for popular movies. Moreover, it will enable access to exclusive content for theatrical and DVD releases and video games.We believe this initiative will boost Wal-Mart’s lackluster movie sales, which have been declining due to the presence of other forms of entertainment and online alternatives. With the digital access, customers will now be able to watch movies anywhere on a variety of new devices. Further, the social networking site Facebook will personalize the store experience. Wal-Mart holds a Zacks #3 Rank (Hold). Over the long-term, we provide a Neutral recommendation on the stock. Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Story continuesVisit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on WMT Read the analyst report on FB Read the analyst report on DWA Read the analyst report on VIA Read the analyst report on TWX Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on WMT,FB,DWA,VIA,TWX