For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – January 9, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Lennar Corporation (LEN), PulteGroup, Inc. (PHM), The Ryland Group, Inc. (RYL), Meritage Homes Corporation (MTH) and Starbucks Corporation (SBUX).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Tuesday’s Analyst Blog: Lennar Hits New 52-Week High One of the leading homebuilders in the U.S, Lennar Corporation (LEN) reached a new 52-week high of $41.24 on January 07, 2013. Lennar carries a Zacks #2 Rank (Buy) for the near term.Lennar is gaining momentum from the fast improving housing fundamentals. With housing recovery, there has been a drop in inventory levels and an increase in home prices.Third Quarter 2012 RecapLennar Corporation reported adjusted earnings (excluding income tax adjustments) of 34 cents per share in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate by 25.9%. Earnings also skyrocketed 209% from the prior-year quarter. Earnings growth was driven by improved homebuilding revenues and solid operating margins.
Total revenue in the quarter climbed 34% to $1.1 billion, driven by pricing and volume growth in a stabilizing housing market. Revenues also surpassed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.03 billion.
Lennar has witnessed solid year-over-year growth in new home orders, average selling prices and home closings in all the three quarters of 2012. Margins have also been above average, despite rising costs, driven by strong operating leverage. Lennar appears confident of significant growth in the rest of the fiscal year and thereafter.
Lennar has delivered positive earnings surprises in all the quarters of 2012 with an impressive average earnings surprise of 27.4% in the trailing four quarters.
We believe that the company is performing better than its peers by increasing sales prices, reducing incentives, improving volumes and by making opportunistic land acquisitions. Moreover, Lennar’s focus on the quality of communities instead of quantity also benefits its margins and new sales orders.
Other Stocks to Consider
With the housing market recovering steadily, many other stocks in the homebuilding sector are currently performing well. These include PulteGroup, Inc. (PHM) – Zacks #2 Rank (Buy), The Ryland Group, Inc. (RYL) – Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) and Meritage Homes Corporation (MTH) – Zacks #2 Rank (Buy).Starbucks Offers  Mobile Card ReadersStarbucks Corporation (SBUX) recently announced that as a part of its partnership with Square, Square Mobile Card Readers will now be available at its stores in the U.S. Enabled by its free software, Square Register, Square Mobile Card Readers will make credit card transactions easier and can be plugged into iPhone, iPad and Android devices.
In order to enable smooth credit and debit card transactions, Starbucks had entered into a partnership with Square in August 2012, a company that offers credit card readers for iPhone, iPad and Android devices. The Starbucks-Square partnership has already introduced the Pay with Square mobile application and the iPhone and Android Starbucks mobile payment applications. The partnership has allowed Starbucks customers to make quick payments at about 7,000 Starbucks stores.
Square Mobile Card Reader will serve small businesses by providing them with easy and affordable card processing services, thus liberating them from hassles associated with credit and debit card payments. Square Mobile Card Readers will significantly reduce the interchange fee associated with the use of debit and credit cards and enhance mobile payment services, thus encouraging business growth.
Starbucks connects with its consumers through its social, Internet, mobile, loyalty and cards programs. Starbucks confirmed that Starbucks cards are now used for 25% of the transactions in the U.S and the money loaded on the cards grew over 20%. The company expects 10% of the payments to be made using mobile application by the end of fiscal 2013.Story continuesWant more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on LEN Read the analyst report on PHM Read the analyst report on RYL Read the analyst report on MTH Read the analyst report on SBUX Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on LEN,PHM,RYL,MTH,SBUX