IRVINE, CA--(Marketwired - Jan 9, 2014) - The Masimo Foundation for Ethics, Innovation and Competition in Healthcare -- this time with the Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare -- convenes the second annual Patient Safety, Science & Technology Summit on Jan. 11-13, where some of the world's leaders in healthcare and government will work to help eradicate preventable patient deaths.It is estimated that each year more than 200,000 patients die preventable deaths in U.S. hospitals. The Patient Safety Movement Foundation, established by the Masimo Foundation, is pushing for ZERO preventable patient deaths by 2020.Building on the success of last year's Summit -- when for the first time nine leading medical technology companies publicly committed to make available the data their devices display so the information can be shared to improve patient safety -- more than a dozen med tech companies will announce public pledges to share their data and dozens of healthcare systems and hospitals will announce their commitments as part of the Patient Safety Movement's effort to reduce patient deaths. Attendees also will workshop, develop and define new Actionable Patient Safety Solutions (APSS) for three specific challenges: healthcare-associated infections, creating a culture of safety, and hand-off communications. These are responsible for more than 100,000 preventable hospital deaths a year in the U.S. alone. Implementation of the APSS should assist healthcare systems and hospitals in dramatically reducing preventable deaths.President Bill Clinton will deliver the keynote address Sunday, Jan. 12. Featured speakers include Patient Safety Movement Foundation Founder Joe Kiani; President and CEO of The Joint Commission and Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare Mark R. Chassin, M.D.; U.S. Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.); U.S. Sen. and Chairman of the HELP Committee Tom Harkin (D-Iowa); Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Chief Medical Officer Dr. Patrick Conway; Former U.S. Surgeon General Richard Carmona; Texas Medical Institute of Technology and Global Patient Safety Forum Chairman Dr. Charles R. Denham; World Health Organization (WHO) Envoy for Patient Safety Sir Liam Donaldson; and WHO Special Envoy of the Director General Thomas Zeltner.An expert panel of media professionals from leading print, digital and broadcast outlets will help kick off the Summit on Saturday, Jan. 11, and debate the role media have in helping prevent patient deaths.Also highlighting the event will be presentations to winners of the first annual Patient Safety Humanitarian Award -- created to recognize those who have done the most in helping get to zero preventable deaths by 2020 -- as well as the Real Awards, created to celebrate the work of healthcare workers who are saving lives every day around the world."Since our first Summit, we have received more than 100 commitments from hospitals, med tech companies and other organizations dedicated to improving patient safety, most importantly some have already been able to show measurable improvement, including saved lives," said Kiani, founder of the Patient Safety Movement and Masimo foundations. "Our ultimate goal is to eliminate preventable patient deaths, and we're going to start by creating a patient-centric movement focused on the wellbeing and dignity of patients, and holding everyone involved with healthcare -- from patients, policy makers, clinicians, hospitals, and industry -- accountable for improving patient safety.""We're pleased to join forces with the Patient Safety Movement Foundation, and co-convene this year's Summit. We believe that by using new tools and methods to galvanize improvement, we can achieve the attainable goal of zero preventable patient deaths by 2020," said Dr. Chassin, President and CEO of The Joint Commission and Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare. For more information please visit http://patientsafetymovement.org. Members of the media may request press passes through Irene Paigah, phone (858) 859-7001 or email irene@paigah.comAbout The Patient Safety Movement Foundation More than 200,000 people die every year in U.S. hospitals in ways that could have been prevented. The Patient Safety Movement Foundation was established through the support of the Masimo Foundation for Ethics, Innovation, and Competition in Healthcare, to reduce that number of preventable deaths to 0 by 2020 (0x2020). Improving patient safety will require a collaborative effort from all stakeholders, including patients, healthcare providers, medical technology companies, government, employers, and private payors. The Patient Safety Movement Foundation works with all stakeholders to address the problems and solutions of patient safety. The Foundation also convenes Patient Safety, Science and Technology summits. The first annual Summit was held in January 2013 and brought together some of our nation's best minds for thought-provoking discussions and new ideas to challenge the status quo. By presenting specific, high-impact recipes to meet patient safety challenges, encouraging medical technology companies to share the data for whom their products are purchased, and asking hospitals to make commitments to implement Actionable Patient Safety Solutions, the Foundation is working toward zero preventable deaths by 2020. Visit www.thepatientsafetymovement.org.About the Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare Launched in 2009, the Joint Commission Center for Transforming Healthcare aims to transform American health care into a high-reliability industry that ensures patients receive care that is consistently excellent and consistently safe. The Center's participants - the nation's leading hospitals and health systems - use a proven, systematic approach to analyze specific breakdowns in care, discover their underlying causes and then develop targeted solutions for health care's most critical safety and quality problems. The Center is a not-for-profit affiliate of The Joint Commission, which shares the Center's proven effective solutions with its more than 20,000 accredited and certified health care organizations. Learn more about the Center at www.centerfortransforminghealthcare.org.