SAN DIEGO, CA--(Marketwired - Jan 9, 2014) - TGI Thursdays are back and better than ever at Barona Resort & Casino starting January 9. Every Thursday in January, Barona players are invited to try their luck at big cash prizes totaling $30,000!"This year we are upping the ante at January's TGI Thursdays," said Rick Salinas, general manager of Barona Resort & Casino. "Players will now win even more cash with 15 $1,000 winners and three lucky $5,000 winners every Thursday!"It's easier than ever to qualify. Beginning at 12:01 a.m. every Thursday in January, actively playing Club Barona members will receive one entry for every 250 myPOINTS earned. One lucky player will win $5,000 and five will win $1,000 during drawings at 8 a.m., 4 p.m. and midnight! The virtual tumbler will be emptied after each drawing and players do not have to be present to win.Recent winner of the U-T San Diego best of award for Best Casino and Loosest Slots, Barona has 2,000 slots and video poker machines. Additionally, the casino features over 80 table games including Blackjack, Pai Gow Poker, Caribbean Stud, Barona Craps, Three-Card Poker, Four-Card Poker, Mississippi Stud, Let It Ride, Baccarat and Barona Roulette, as well as the latest innovations in chipless gaming including Chipless Roulette™, Chipless Three-Card Poker and Chipless Blackjack™. About Barona Resort & Casino  Barona Resort & Casino, an AAA Four Diamond rated property, blends the best of San Diego's leading resorts with the gaming excitement of Las Vegas. LEED® Gold Certified by the U.S. Green Building Council, Barona features 400 guest rooms and suites all with beautiful views of the Barona Valley, a variety of award-winning dining options, the AmBience Day Spa, a full-service events center and the 18-hole championship Barona Creek Golf Club, rated the 3rd best resort course in California by Golfweek magazine. For Barona Resort & Casino reservations and information, visit www.barona.com, or call toll free 888-7-BARONA (722-7662). You can also join Barona on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Foursquare.