Click here for high-resolution versionMoreLAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jan 9, 2014) - PANDA!, an unprecedented theatrical spectacular, will open at The Venetian and The Palazzo Las Vegas, Tuesday, Jan. 7. The new resident show, from acclaimed director An Zhao, will debut on the famed Las Vegas Strip direct from Beijing, where it was produced.PANDA! was produced by a team whose impressive credits include the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. The hold-on-to-your-seat spectacle combines high-flying acrobatics, mesmerizing martial arts, music and dance, and includes a talented cast of award-winning performers from China National Acrobatic Troupe and Shaolin Monastery Kung Fu Monks Troupe."We're very pleased to present an authentically Chinese show to the international audiences Las Vegas is known to attract," said Zhao. "We have a wonderful cast of world-class performers whose talent is boundless."A new spin on a timeless tale, this one-of-a-kind production artfully mixes traditional Chinese themes with unprecedented theatrical effects."If you were awestruck by the opening ceremonies of the Beijing Olympics, this show is for you," said John Caparella, president and chief operating officer for The Venetian, The Palazzo and Sands Expo.PANDA! will perform Tuesday through Sunday at 7:30 p.m. at The Palazzo Theater. For up-to-date schedule information, including dark dates, or to purchase tickets ($48-$128) visit any Venetian or Palazzo Box Office, or go online to www.venetian.com/panda, or call 702.414.9000.About The Venetian Las Vegas® The Venetian Resort-Hotel-Casino, the largest property in the country to receive AAA's Five Diamond and the coveted Forbes Travel Guide Four Star awards, is one of the world's most luxurious resort and convention destinations. Recreating Venice's legendary landmarks, the LEED® EB Gold-certified resort offers unmatched service and quality for leisure and corporate guests. With suites ranging from a standard 650-square-foot Luxury Suite to the luxurious 10,000-square-foot Chairman Suite, the all-suite resort boasts more than 4,000 of Las Vegas' most lavish suite accommodations. Located in the heart of the Las Vegas Strip, The Venetian features Grand Canal Shoppes®, an indoor streetscape complete with gondolas and singing gondoliers, the Canyon Ranch SpaClub®, world-class gaming, exquisite restaurants, a wide variety of entertainment such as "Soul2Soul with Tim McGraw and Faith Hill," the party musical "ROCK OF AGES," showroom headliners including Human Nature, David Spade, Rita Rudner, Tim Allen and Joan Rivers and extensive convention and corporate services. Guests can earn points while they eat, sleep, shop and play with Grazie, the premier loyalty program. The Venetian and its sister resort, The Palazzo Las Vegas, are the first ever Alliance Resorts in the InterContinental Hotel Group® global portfolio. For additional information, visit venetian.com, follow on Twitter @venetianvegas and interact on Facebook at facebook.com/venetianlasvegas.About The Palazzo Las Vegas With more than 3,000 spacious suites, luxury shopping,world-class dining and entertainment, the Silver LEED®-certified Palazzo Las Vegas literally takes luxury to new heights. Ranked as one of the top 25 hotels in the U.S. and Canada in Travel + Leisure "World's Best Awards" for two consecutive years, the AAA Five Diamond and Forbes Travel Guide Four Star-Award winning resort is highlighted by a flagship 85,000-square-foot Barneys New York. Grand Canal Shoppes®, feature more than 60 luxury boutiques, including 20 remarkable stores and couture brands making their Las Vegas debuts at The Palazzo including Chloé, Tory Burch, Christian Louboutin, and Diane von Furstenberg. The all-suite resort offers plush and opulent suite accommodations ranging from a Luxury Suite at an unprecedented 720 square feet to the 8,000-square-foot Chairman suite with private terraces and plunge pools. The Palazzo also offers a variety of cuisines from a collection of award-winning chefs such as Carnevino by Mario Batali, CUT by Wolfgang Puck and Table 10 by Emeril Lagasse. Other unique offerings include PANDA!, an unprecedented theatrical spectacle; the chic dining and nightlife hotspot, LAVO; the world's largest Canyon Ranch SpaClub; the ultimate sports bar, sportsbook and restaurant on the Strip, Lagasse's Stadium; and Prestige at The Palazzo -- an exclusive space designed to offer the sophisticated traveler an elevated level of services and amenities. Guests can earn points while they eat, sleep, shop and play with Grazie, the premier loyalty program. The Palazzo and its famed sister resort, The Venetian Las Vegas, are the first ever Alliance Resorts in the InterContinental Hotel Group global portfolio. For additional information, visit The Palazzo website at palazzolasvegas.com, follow on Twitter @palazzovegas and interact on Facebook at facebook.com/palazzolasvegas.The names and brands mentioned above are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of their respective owners.