SAN FRANCISCO, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 15, 2013) -
Cloudwords, the market-leading cloud-based translation management application, today announced the launch of the Cloudwords Developer Center, a new developer-centric destination designed to enable easy integration between content management systems (CMS) and the Cloudwords platform. To meet the ever-increasing demand for localized content, Cloudwords is providing new integration capabilities to accelerate the process of multilingual content management by enabling developers to integrate with all major CMS platforms, including Drupal, Adobe CQ, Microsoft Sharepoint, Oracle UCM, and SiteCore, among others.The Cloudwords Translation Management Automation solution helps companies expand their global presence faster, more easily and with enterprise-class quality. With today's announcement, Cloudwords becomes the most developer-friendly cloud-based translation management solution geared specifically for the enterprise."Cloudwords continues to deliver innovations that enable our customers to stay one step ahead when it comes to going to market globally. The Cloudwords Developer Center underscores our commitment to making it even easier and faster for enterprises to manage large amounts of content that need to be translated. By simplifying the integration process behind the scenes, customers can get up and running in the Cloudwords platform even faster, and take advantage of the simplicity of moving content in and out of critical content systems, ultimately delivering increased ROI," said Scott Yancey, CEO and Co-founder of Cloudwords.The Cloudwords Developer Center features the Cloudwords Sandbox, a unique environment that provides developers a fully automated integration experience. The Cloudwords Sandbox allows developers to quickly build and test Cloudwords integrations with any content system their business users rely on. A simulated end-to-end translation management experience, automated by a translation vendor "robot," means developers can experience the power of Cloudwords in a low-risk environment. Having the ability to test an integration within an environment that mirrors the actual Cloudwords production account allows developers to completely prepare for enterprise roll-out.The Cloudwords Development Center also includes pre-built integrations for Drupal, Adobe CQ, and others, as well as complete documentation for the company's acclaimed REST-based API, and Software Development Kits (SDKs) for Java, .net, and PHP."The ability for companies to easily and efficiently localize their marketing content is mission critical in today's global economy. But this critical enterprise content is locked away inside ungainly content management systems. By leveraging CMS integration capabilities with their translation management application, organizations can finally achieve optimal localization efficiency. If companies aren't streamlining their localization process, they will fall behind their competition when it comes to reaching international markets," said Robinson Kelly, CEO and Co-founder of Clay Tablet Technologies."Cloudwords allows ADInstruments to easily integrate our Drupal website with their localization management platform so we can streamline the ongoing process of translating our website content. By integrating with Cloudwords, our content is uploaded, translated and approved within a significantly shorter time frame than the traditional 'cut and paste' approach. Now, we rely on Cloudwords to centralize all our multilingual assets and work with multiple translation vendors to localize content in 13 languages," said Ina Kinski, Hardware and Tools Coordinator at ADInstruments, responsible for website implementation.Cloudwords' complete cloud-based translation management solution helps companies go global faster by enabling companies to manage the complexity of translation projects from creation to vendor selection to project and billing management. The Cloudwords platform offers easy-to-use, cloud-based project management capabilities so users spend less time manually managing localization projects and complete projects faster.To learn more about Cloudwords' integration capabilities and the Cloudwords Developer Center, please visit http://developer.cloudwords.com/.Story continuesAbout Cloudwords Cloudwords revolutionizes the way global companies think about their multilingual content strategy and execution. Through an intuitive customer-centric interface and a secure cloud infrastructure, Cloudwords delivers an application for business users to accelerate their translation process, manage vendors, and leverage data. Created by veterans of the translation industry and high-tech leaders from Salesforce.com, the company is backed by Storm Ventures and Cloud visionaries such as Marc Benioff. For more information on Cloudwords, please visit Cloudwords.com or join the global conversation on Twitter @cloudwordsinc.