SAN RAMON, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 14, 2013) -
Tiburon, Inc., a portfolio company of The Gores Group and the leading provider of public safety software solutions, today announced that at next week's APCO Conference it will be showcasing Tiburon Computer-Aided Dispatch (CAD) with integrated 9-1-1 call taking along with the integrated NG9-1-1 SMS and MMS message handling.By integrating the functions of computer-aided dispatch, 9-1-1 call taking and NG9-1-1 SMS and MMS message handling, Tiburon is helping solve the current problem of call taker workflow complexity and reducing equipment cost and footprint in the dispatch center. With Tiburon's solution, events from all three sources can be presented via a clean, common user experience on a single workstation -- giving dispatchers and call takers an environment that promotes maximum focus and usability. Tiburon's open architecture approach also means that a variety of industry leading telephony vendors can be supported -- with some well-respected providers being shown on Tiburon's booth. Other advanced features include a common login, shared map / address validation, telephony control within the CAD application, workstation based call check conversation recording, integration to leading voice logging solutions, rich information exchange between the call taking and CAD application and shared site information."Enhancing dispatcher and call-taker workflow and usability is a critical part of delivering a mission critical solution like Tiburon CAD," said Cliff Micham, Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing at Tiburon. "What we'll be demonstrating at APCO -- and shipping this year -- is more proof of Tiburon's role in leading the evolution of public safety. We're proud of our ability to help call takers and dispatchers overcome the challenges of multiple systems and multiple monitors -- particularly when it comes to future challenges of multiple NG9-1-1 data feeds."About Tiburon Established in 1980, Tiburon, Inc. is the public safety and security industries' leading provider of integrated computer aided dispatch (CAD), mobile, records management system (RMS) and analytics solutions for Public Safety as a Service (PSaaS). The company also offers fully integrated solutions for field reporting, corrections management, NIEM-compliant data sharing and related implementation services for any size or type of agency or firm. From mission-critical conditions to daily operations, across complex multi-agency and multi-jurisdictional environments, Tiburon's partnership and technology helps clients save lives, optimize resources, and improve property saving and protective services. For more information, visit www.tiburoninc.com or call (800) 428-5534.About The Gores Group
The Gores Group, LLC is a global investment firm focused on acquiring controlling interests in mature and growing businesses which can benefit from the firm's operating experience and flexible capital base. The firm combines the operational expertise and detailed due diligence capabilities of a strategic buyer with the seasoned M&A team of a traditional financial buyer. The Gores Group, which was founded in 1987 by Alec E. Gores, has become a leading investor having demonstrated over time a reliable track record of creating substantial value in its portfolio companies alongside management. Headquartered in Los Angeles, The Gores Group maintains offices in Boulder, CO, and London, UK. For more information, please visit www.gores.com.