When Luke Bozier, former political press exec and co-founder of social network Menshn, was arrested in December for allegedly possessing pornographic images of children, it was a big shock to London's nascent start up scene.Bozier's downfall occured after hackers claimed to have found damaging online posts about "young girls" and "jailbait" written by him and posted them to LukeBozier.co.uk, Bozier's own website that had been hacked. His business partner, well-known former politician Louise Mensch, later announced Bozier had resigned from his position at Menshn.Speaking to the Guardian's Josh Halliday today, Bozier explained that "pedophile" accusations had almost destroyed him:"Initially, that was it for me. Life's done. I've been labelled a paedophile, which is not true. It's worse than a normal trauma which you just get over eventually."Bozier told Halliday that he had not viewed sexually explicit images of children, and had instead looked at what the Guardian described as "non-sexual, non-pornographic pictures of teenagers". Bozier hits out at what he views as the "hypocrisy" of the UK's Sexual Offences Act 2003, which lists viewing "suggestive pictures of women" between the age of 16-18 as a crime.Bozier now appears to be on the war path, calling out Mensch for "covering her back" by calling the police on him before even talking to him.Perhaps even more incredible is the updated, newly-returned-to-Bozier lukebozier.co.uk. The website is now dedicated entirely to Milo Yiannopoulos , the controversial British tech journalist whose site The Kernel broke the story about the alleged "young girls" posts.Yiannopoulos , prolific on Twitter under his @Nero username, is perhaps one of London's best known tech bloggers, and certainly its most controversial. He has a long-running feud with the Guardian, who published a big takedown of the Kernel, and has been accused of being homophobic and anti-Semitic — despite self-identifying as both gay and Jewish."In a nutshell: Milo Yiannopoulos falsifies information to create sensationalist stories for his Kernel", reads the headline to Bozier's post. Bozier goes on to admit that he considered Yiannopoulos a friend, but then accuses Yiannopoulos of libel in an article from last month titled "Bozier Sexted While in Meeting with Mensch", saying that "Milo falsified the dates on the [Twitter] Direct Message screenshots, to suggest that I was with [Louise] Mensch while sending them."Yiannopoulos has acknowledged the accusations on Twitter, saying that he has tried to comment on the article but it is in moderation (it hasn't been posted yet). However, he has responded on Twitter, in typical fashion:Yeah, I've read Bozier's post. I understand why he might be angry. I was angry too when I discovered one of my friends was a pervert.— Milo Yiannopoulos (@Nero) January 31, 2013More From Business Insider HTML5 vs. Apps: Here's Why The Debate Matters, And Who Will WinHere's Why Athletes Use Deer Antler SprayThis Engineer Saved Facebook