VANCOUVER, BRITISH COLUMBIA--(Marketwired - Jan 30, 2014) -
Digital Shelf Space Corp. (the "Company" or "DSS") (TSX VENTURE:DSS)(DTSRF) announced today that the Company and Gaiam Americas, Inc. ("Gaiam") have mutually agreed to terminate the distribution agreement between the two parties for the Company's flagship product GSP RUSHFIT. Terms of this termination agreement remain private and confidential."We have worked very closely with the DRTV team at Gaiam over the past 8 months. However, Gaiam and DSS have agreed that now is the time for DSS to retake control over all aspects of distribution with respect to GSP RUSHFIT" said Jeffrey Sharpe President and CEO for DSS. "The collaboration with Gaiam has been successful so far. In fact, GSP RUSHFIT had its best single sales day in the history of the product on Amazon.com earlier this month. However, DSS believes that, by taking back control of the distribution, there is even greater potential, and we believe we can become one of the real leaders in the category."As a result of this development, DSS (in cooperation with Gaiam) is in the process of transitioning the operations of the gsprushfit.com website back to the Company, re-establishing a direct selling relationship with Amazon.com, and taking on directly all vendors (including warehousing and fulfillment, call centers and media buyers). This transition should be completed by the end of February, 2014.In addition to transitioning the distribution of GSP RUSHFIT and the day to day cash flows back to DSS, the Company is also in the process of completing the new infomercial for the PGA TOUR's TOURAcademy Home Edition, with final production having taken place the week of January 6, 2014, with an anticipated completion date of the end of the month. DSS will look to begin test marketing of the new infomercial leading into the spring and the beginning of the golf season. TOURAcademy Home Edition is the TourAcademy's comprehensive golf improvement program. Players at all skill levels take nine lessons at home then hit the range where they follow an 8-week, step-by-step practice plan to master their full swing and learn stroke-saving short game techniques. The program comes complete with two training aids, a contact bag and alignment sticks, and the TOURAcademy instruction manual and practice guide.GSP RUSHFIT was designed to appeal to the massive global audience with an interest in MMA and MMA training methods as a complete home fitness workout program. GSP RUSHFIT combines three of the hottest fitness trends. The complete program uses various MMA conditioning exercises, intense circuit style training and body weight training for fitness consumers to build muscle, cut weight and get in shape. GSP RUSHFIT is unlike any fitness program available. This program was carefully designed to give the most efficient and effective workout possible at home with minimal equipment. When consumers see how hard internationally respected athlete Georges St-Pierre pushes himself, working out alongside him will motivate and inspire consumers to push themselves harder, and achieve more than they ever thought possible. Georges St-Pierre has dedicated his life to Mixed Martial Arts and is regarded as one of the top conditioned athletes not only in the sport, but also in the world. Fitness fans everywhere can benefit directly from the same commitment GSP has made to his own health and fitness.About Digital Shelf Space Corp. Digital Shelf Space is an independent creator, producer and distributor of home entertainment content targeted at the fitness and sports instruction market. Digital Shelf Space's overall content partnership strategy is to align itself with world-class, global brand partners. For more information visit www.digitalshelfspace.com and to view our current projects with Georges St-Pierre and the TOURAcademy®, visit www.gsprushfit.com and www.touracademydvds.com.Forward-Looking StatementsThis news release may contain forward-looking statements and information based on current expectations. These statements should not be read as guarantees of future performance or results. Such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from those implied by such statements. Although such statements are based on management's reasonable assumptions, there can be no assurance that such assumptions will prove to be correct. We assume no responsibility to update or revise them to reflect new events or circumstances.Story continuesAdditionally, there are known and unknown risk factors which could cause Digital Shelf Space's actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking information contained herein. Known risk factors include, among others: reliance on the health and marketability of celebrity fitness talent in productions owned by Digital Shelf Space; actual results from the use of celebrity fitness products may differ substantially from anticipated results; the substantial investment of capital required to produce and market video and entertainment productions, limitations imposed by our financing abilities, unpredictability of the commercial success of our programming, difficulties in integrating technological changes and other trends affecting the entertainment industry.A more complete discussion of the risks and uncertainties facing Digital Shelf Space is disclosed in Digital Shelf Space's Filing Statement dated November 16, 2010 and continuous disclosure filings with Canadian securities regulatory authorities at www.sedar.com. All forward-looking information herein is qualified in its entirety by this cautionary statement, and Digital Shelf Space disclaims any obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking information or to publicly announce the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking information contained herein to reflect future results, events or developments, except as required by law.Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of the release.