NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - Jan 30, 2014) - Eyes on the Go, Inc. (
OTCQB :
AXCG ) ("Eyes"), a virtual broadcasting company with a proprietary video streaming network providing live and recorded content from top New York City nightlife venues, confirmed today that total Internet traffic for December had exceeded 2 million page views. This represents an increase of 180% from the traffic in November of 1.1 million page views.The Company also reported today that total visitors were over 850,000. In addition, the company continues to experience very high visitor duration, or total time spent on the site by consumers.The Company and BlackBook Magazine partnered on their first broadcast event with the Young Widows concert at Saint Vitus in Brooklyn on January 27th. The performance was broadcast live from GANDER.tv and BlackBook web sites and was also featured on four leading heavy metal web sites. One site experienced average duration of over one hour, an unheard of viewing time."We are seeing continued growth in our viewer base with another huge increase over last month," stated Chris Carey, the Company's CEO. "We are very pleased that our customers are exploring the site and visiting with almost 3 performances per visit. We believe that the combination of interesting and varied content with increasing partnerships will continue to drive traffic growth."About Eyes on the Go, Inc. and GANDER.tv GANDER.tv streams live and recorded video from nightlife venues and events providing entertainment, exposure and revenue opportunities that are all leveraged with digital marketing and social media support. GANDER.tv works collaboratively with clients to promote awareness, interest and attendance at venues, shows and events. We drive incremental revenue through pay-per-view, advertising and sponsorships. GANDER.tv's mission is to provide unique, authentic content to the world.Statements not based on historical fact are forward-looking statements. Although such statements are based on management's current estimates and expectations, and currently available competitive, financial, and economic data, forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain. We, therefore, caution the reader that there are a variety of factors that could cause business conditions and results to differ materially from what is contained in our forward-looking statements.For a description of some factors which may occur that could cause actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements please refer to our Annual Report Form 10-K and other Company reports. We caution readers that we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.