El Sol at Palmilla offers innovative detached home designs. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreBRENTWOOD, CA--(Marketwired - Jan 30, 2014) - Homebuyers have been eagerly awaiting the next stage at Cielo and El Sol at Palmilla by William Lyon Homes, and news of construction progress has them more excited than ever. Model home construction is well underway and these stylish neighborhoods are coming alive with unexpected details and unique charm in preparation for a spring 2014 debut. If you have yet to discover Cielo and El Sol at Palmilla in Brentwood, you owe it to yourself to take a look. Stop by the on-site Preview Sales Center for a 3D virtual tour of the 8 beautiful floorplans and get more details about the modern features included in these innovative home designs"Cielo and El Sol have already become ingrained into the fabric of the Palmilla master-planned community," said Kathy Floyd, Director of Sales for William Lyon Homes. "Buyers are always driving by to check on construction progress and asking for updates. Clearly, homebuyers in search of a beautiful, yet affordable new home in Brentwood close to new schools, restaurants, wineries and great local shopping, know exactly where to look."An intimate enclave of 56 new homes, Cielo at Palmilla will offer four two-story modern courtyard designs with 3 to 5 bedrooms, 2.5 to 3 baths and 2-car attached garages ranging from approximately 1,770 to 2,422 square feet. Prices are anticipated to start from the high $300,000s.A limited opportunity of just 49 homes, El Sol at Palmilla will present innovative detached homes with two and three-story living spaces. 3 and 4 bedrooms, 2.5 to 3.5 baths and 2-car garages will be offered in approximately 1,356 to 1,789 square feet. Pricing are anticipated to start from the mid $300,000s.Palmilla offers a dynamic master-planned environment with parks and golf courses nearby and close proximity to Highway 4 for easy access to major employment centers. Cielo and El Sol at Palmilla are located within the Brentwood Union School District and the Liberty Union High School District.It matters who your builder is, and William Lyon Homes means it when they say that they put themselves into their homes. They build each and every home as if it were their own and have earned a solid track record for constructing quality homes backed by a solid customer service program since 1954. Learn more by visiting www.lyonhomes.com for updated information on William Lyon Homes' new neighborhoods.To visit the Cielo & El Sol Preview Sales Center, travel north on Highway 4, exit Sand Creek Road and turn right. Turn right on Minnesota Ave., left on Central Blvd. and left again on Palmilla Dr. The Preview Sales Center will be open daily from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more information, please call 925.513.6965 and register at www.LyonCielo.com and www.LyonElSol.com to place one's name on the interest list.Prices are effective as of the date of publication. Pricing is approximate and is subject to change without prior notice. Cal/BRE Officer License: 00982816.