SINGAPORE--(Marketwired - Jan 10, 2014) -  GoCoin, a leading digital currency payment platform, announced today its ability to accept the alternative digital currency Litecoin. GoCoin clients will now have the flexibility to accept both Bitcoin and Litecoin payments all through one succinct platform.GoCoin is the first payment platform to incorporate the growing alternative currency market. In earlier days of Bitcoin, many found themselves wondering, "Where can I actually spend my Bitcoins?" With this new feature, merchants can prevent Litecoin holders from facing that same dilemma by giving them a place to spend their Litecoins."GoCoin's platform was specifically designed from the beginning to easily accommodate emerging digital currencies, such as Litecoin, because we saw the massive potential of the digital currency market," said GoCoin's Founder & CEO, Steve Beauregard. "Our goal is to create a one-stop payments solution for merchants to streamline checkout and expand sales with digital currency payments.""In the past we had to turn away customers requesting to purchase KnCMiner computers with Litecoin," said Sam Cole, President of the leading Bitcoin mining hardware manufacturer and a client of Gocoin. "Through this new alliance with GoCoin, for the first time, our worldwide customers will be able to pay with both Bitcoin and Litecoin."The GoCoin platform has been built by top-tier eCommerce experts to allow merchants to claim an advantage in the quickly adapting digital currency arena. With the ability to penetrate this untapped market, merchants who use GoCoin can be among the first to easily accept Litecoin, the leading alternative currency, behind Bitcoin.For more information, please visit http://www.gocoin.com/.ABOUT GOCOIN The GoCoin international payment platform makes it easier than ever for online and retail merchants to accept Bitcoin and Litecoin as payment methods. While payments infrastructure over the last half-century was designed to hold funds for as long as possible, while extracting maximum fees from consumers and merchants, GoCoin enables merchants to reap the benefits of accepting digital currency. GoCoin takes all of the perceived risk of accepting the digital currency on behalf of merchants. Founded in July 2013, GoCoin will process Bitcoin and Litecoin payments for online and brick and mortar retailers, bypassing the often cumbersome and insecure options of virtual exchanges and other third parties. For more information, please visit http://www.gocoin.com.Official Website | Facebook | @GOCOINABOUT KnCMiner KnCMiner AB are the market leading producer of Bitcoin mining hardware. Based Stockholm, Sweden, they design, develop and manufacture Bitcoin Mining devices based on 28 and 20nm silicon production processes. Today over half of all bitcoin transactions worldwide are secured using equipment from KnCMiner. For more information, please visit https://www.kncminer.com/.