The Official Barrett-Jackson Battery Charger and Maintainer Powered by CTEK Click here for high-resolution versionMoreTWINSBURG, OH--(Marketwired - Jan 10, 2014) - CTEK, a leader in smart charging battery systems, announced today the availability of a new branded battery charger through the acclaimed Barrett-Jackson Auction Company. The Official Barrett-Jackson Battery Charger and Maintainer Powered by CTEK is a fully automatic 8-step charger that maximizes battery life and performance. The charger can solve a broad range of battery-related problems and is the perfect charger for classic car owners with exacting demands.Craig Jackson, chairman and CEO of Barrett-Jackson states, "I have used these battery chargers for my personal collection of cars and by far they are the best product out in the marketplace today. We are proud to be associated with CTEK."This new charger offers many features such as battery analyze that shows if a battery can receive and retain a charge, and a special reconditioning function that restores stratified and deeply discharged batteries. It also has a unique maintenance charging mode, a mode for optimized charging during cold winter days and for charging demanding AGM batteries. The unique display allows users to follow the entire charging process."We are excited to work with the prestigious Barrett-Jackson Auction Company on this versatile charger," said Ken Palmman, general manager, CTEK Power Inc. "Our state-of-the-art technology gives consumers the power they need to take charge of their batteries, especially automotive enthusiasts and collector car owners."The Official Barrett-Jackson Battery Charger and Maintainer delivers selectable 0.8 A or 4.3 A to 12 V batteries from 1.2-110 Ah and is suitable for maintenance charging up to 160 Ah. The charger is splash and dust proof, designed to protect vehicle electronics and non-sparking, reverse polarity protected and short-circuit proof.The Official Barrett-Jackson Battery Charger and Maintainer sells for $119.99 (U.S.) and comes with a five year warranty. It is available at the Barrett-Jackson website at www.barrett-jackson.com or through the CTEK website at www.smartercharger.com/barrett-jackson.For more information, phone 800-941-7611, email info@smartercharger.com, or visit www.smartercharger.com. Download image: http://goo.gl/oEqkGJAbout The Barrett-Jackson Auction Company Established in 1971 and headquartered in Scottsdale, Ariz., Barrett-Jackson, the world's leading collector car auction and automotive lifestyle event, specializes in providing products and services to astute classic and collector car owners and automotive enthusiasts around the world. For more about Barrett-Jackson, visit www.barrett-jackson.com, or phone 480-421-6694. About CTEK CTEK Power, Inc. is based in Twinsburg, Ohio and is the North American headquarters of CTEK. CTEK manufactures a complete range of new generation high-quality, reliable battery chargers and accessories for private and professional use that are effective, user friendly and above all safe to use. CTEK has become the most trusted name in battery charging, manufacturing and distributing both CTEK and OEM branded chargers.