Visit www.LyonTurnLeaf.com to view the variety of floorplans at TurnLeaf. Click here for high-resolution versionMoreJURUPA VALLEY, CA--(Marketwired - May 8, 2014) - The enticing new home opportunity offered by William Lyon Homes' TurnLeaf community in the Jurupa Valley area of Riverside is one step closer to reality with the announcement that the floorplans for The Crossing and The Coventry neighborhoods are now online. Interested homebuyers who are looking for the ideal new home and neighborhood to comfortably plan for a thriving future are encouraged to go online and view the spacious home designs so they can choose which floorplan is right for them prior to the Sales Gallery opening. Log on to www.LyonTurnLeaf.com to view the six floorplans and get on the Inside Track for advance notice of pricing and sneak previews."With six beautifully designed and well-appointed floorplans to select from, homebuyers at The Crossing and The Coventry have a broad range of new home options, with one that is perfectly suited for their lifestyle and budget," said Lesley Pennington, Vice President of Sales for William Lyon Homes. "Now that the floorplans are online, they can visit the website at their leisure and study the living spaces and bedroom configurations to determine which plan best fits their family. Since we know prospective homebuyers have already fallen in love with the community of TurnLeaf, it's only a matter of finding the perfect floorplan to meet their needs today and in years to come."The Crossing and The Coventry will offer homebuyers generously sized floorplans with a variety of bedrooms and oversized yards, creating plenty of room to move and grow, both inside and out. Professionally designed front-yard landscaping offers additional value, along with the style and architectural distinction of a respected builder like William Lyon Homes and benefits of brand new construction with long-term warranties. The combination of attainable pricing and low HOA fees also make TurnLeaf uniquely affordable for today's families.The Crossing at TurnLeaf will offer single-family detached residences in one and two stories ranging from approximately 2,693 to 3,313 square feet, with 3 to 5 bedrooms, 2.5 to 3.5 baths, large great rooms, up to 3-car garages and optional rear yard "California Rooms" that create desirable spaces for outdoor living. Prices are anticipated to start from the mid $500,000s.The Coventry at TurnLeaf will present highly amenitized two-story detached home designs ranging from approximately 3,426 to 3,803 square feet, with 4 to 5 bedrooms, 3 to 4.5 baths, great rooms ideal for daily gatherings and entertaining, 3-car garages and optional rear yard loggias that give owners a desirable outdoor feature. Prices are anticipated to start from the high $500,000s.Architecture encompassing Spanish, Santa Barbara, Tuscan and Monterey styles will give the exteriors of The Crossing and The Coventry a stunning authenticity, further enhanced by an array of customizable choices for TurnLeaf homeowners.Expansive properties averaging 10,000 to 12,000 square feet will extend the living space outdoors, with ample space to run, play, dine al fresco and entertain friends and family. With so much space available, everything from outdoor kitchen areas to custom spas to kids' play sets can create the outdoor space owners have been envisioning.The community's central Inland Empire location, which gives commuters great access, will be one more advantage to living at TurnLeaf. The convenient Jurupa Valley setting will put residents close to the I-15, 91 and 60 freeways and convenient to the employment hubs of Orange, West Riverside and South San Bernardino counties. Major employment opportunities close to home, both in the region and in the local area, are another important consideration that makes TurnLeaf a smart choice for homebuyers.The dynamic retail and entertainment destination of Eastvale Gateway is located near the community, offering entertainment by way of an Edwards Cinemas, restaurants, clothing stores, home goods, a Vons supermarket and much more. TurnLeaf residents will also be within close proximity of leisure and recreation areas that offer playgrounds and parks. Popular destinations include Jurupa Community Center & Skate Park, Jurupa Valley Spectrum and Cinemas, along with the retail experiences of established Ontario Mills and the beautiful Victoria Gardens outside mall. Golfers of all levels can hit the links at Jurupa Hills Country Club and the award-winning Paradise Knolls Golf Course. Horse enthusiasts will love the equestrian arena at Laramore Park conveniently located near TurnLeaf -- the park also features a playground and picnic tables.Story continuesIt matters who your builder is, and William Lyon Homes means it when they say that they put themselves into their homes. They build each and every home as if it were their own and have earned a solid track record for constructing quality homes backed by a solid customer service program since 1954. Learn more by visiting www.lyonhomes.com for updated information on William Lyon Homes' new neighborhoods.Prices are effective as of the date of publication. Pricing is approximate and is subject to change without prior notice. CalBRE Officer License: 00982816.