Calgary, AB / ACCESSWIRE / May 8, 2014 / CanAm Coal Corp. (COE TSX-V) (CanAm" or the "Company") is providing an update on its proposed financing. As previously announced, CanAm has engaged Richardson GMP Limited to act as agent with respect to a proposed "commercially reasonable efforts" $14 million private placement of units, each unit comprised of $1,000 principal amount of 12% non-convertible secured debentures and 670 common share purchase warrants. The proposed financing is progressing well and the Company is planning to close the private placement on or before May 16, 2014. The main purpose of the private placement is to repay its 10% and 9.5% debentures. The 10% debenture matured today and the 9.5% debentures mature on May 9, 2014. Under the 10% and 9.5% debentures, the Company has 21 business day and 10 business day cure periods respectively to repay the 10% and 9.5% debentures upon maturity and intends to make repayment (including interest accruing to the date of repayment) prior to expiry of these cure periods.It is anticipated that insiders and close associates will participate in the new debenture for approximately $4 to $4.5 million with insiders representing approximately $2.7 million. Closing of the private placement is subject to receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals including approval of the TSX Venture Exchange.This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any state in the United States in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The securities referred to herein have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.For Further Information: CanAm Corporate Office:Jos De Smedt, President & CEOTel: 403.262.3797Toll Free: 1.877.262.5888Email: jdesmedt@canamcoal.comNeither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.Advisory Respecting Forward-Looking Statements: This news release contains certain "forward-looking information and statements" within the meaning of applicable securities laws. The use of any of the words "expect", "anticipate", "continue", "estimate", "objective", "ongoing", "may", "will", "project", "should", "believe", "plans", "intends", "confident", "might" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking information or statements. In particular, this new release contains forward looking statements pertaining to: the terms of the Offering and the Units to be issued thereunder; the anticipated closing date of the Offering; the amount of proceeds from the Offering; and the use of the proceeds from the Offering. Various assumptions were used in drawing the conclusions contained in the forward-looking statements throughout this news release.The forward-looking information and statements included in this news release are not guarantees of future performance and should not be unduly relied upon. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current beliefs and assumptions, based on information currently available to management. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of the Company. Among the material factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements are: that the information is of a preliminary nature and may be subject to further adjustment; failure of the proposed Offering to proceed on the terms agreed to; failure to obtain the required approvals for the Offering; the failure to sell all Units offered pursuant to the Offering; failure to convert the required amount of debentures pursuant to the terms of the U.S. debt facility; as well as those factors discussed in or referred to under the heading "Risk and Uncertainties" in the Company's Management's Discussion & Analysis dated November 26, 2013 available at www.sedar.com. Such information and statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking information or statements.Story continuesThe Company cautions that the foregoing list of assumptions, risks and uncertainties is not exhaustive. The forward-looking information and statements contained in this news release speak only as of the date of this news release, and the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise them to reflect new events or circumstances, except as may be required pursuant to applicable securities laws.