HONG KONG, CHINA--(Marketwired - May 13, 2014) - Artesyn Embedded Technologies, formerly Emerson Network Power's Embedded Computing & Power business, today announced a powerful new software solution for its ATCA® systems, which Artesyn believes could save up to 40 percent of customers' time-to-market.System Services Framework (SSF) is a complete system management suite for Artesyn ATCA systems, allowing users or applications to configure and monitor the hardware and software elements of a single ATCA shelf or across multiple shelves. A graphical user interface provides a quick and easy view of system configuration, events and alarms as well as providing a means of configuring switches or payload blades and managing system access. Artesyn's SSF also provides XML and command line interfaces so user applications have access to the rich assortment of system parameters and controls. The functionality of Artesyn's SSF can be enhanced with Artesyn and 3rd party add-on software modules. For example, Artesyn's ViewCheck™ provides in-service and out-of-service diagnostics of ATCA blades and other system elements. Another add-in, Artesyn's FlowPilot, provides a complete packet load balancing solution."By using Artesyn's System Services Framework and its add-in software modules, our customers can focus on their value-add application. We estimate it can save customers up to 40 percent time-to-market versus writing or porting their own system management software", said Jim Darroch, director of software marketing, Artesyn Embedded Technologies. "Artesyn SSF provides the tools necessary to speed the development process and brings a whole new level of ease-of-operation to ATCA systems." Company Logo http://release.media-outreach.com/i/Download/1489About Artesyn Embedded Technologies
Artesyn Embedded Technologies is a global leader in the design and manufacture of highly reliable power conversion and embedded computing solutions for a wide range of industries including communications, computing, medical, military, aerospace and industrial. For more than 40 years, customers have trusted Artesyn to help them accelerate time-to-market and reduce risk with cost-effective advanced network computing and power conversion solutions. Artesyn has over 20,000 employees worldwide across nine engineering centers of excellence, five world-class manufacturing facilities, and global sales and support offices.Artesyn Embedded Technologies, Artesyn and the Artesyn Embedded Technologies logo are trademarks and service marks of Artesyn Embedded Technologies, Inc. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. © 2014 Artesyn Embedded Technologies, Inc.