TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - May 14, 2014) -
Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada, the luxury private member-only and concierge provider, announced today they have retained DECK Agency as Agency of Record. The agency will be tasked with full service design studio work, including all print and web services.DECK Agency, which specializes in luxury branding, was selected by Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada to represent them and communicate their luxury concierge services to the public. "We are very pleased to have DECK Agency support us as our agency of record," said Shane Mungal, President of Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada. "As a leading branding and communications company that has proven to drive incremental growth for luxury brands, we found our Communications and PR partner in DECK Agency. DECK will help tell our story and advance Quintessentially Lifestyle in Canada through their established networks, strategic relationships, design, and thought leadership."Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada, which re-launched in Canada in November 2013, is part of the world's largest members only, luxury concierge service that caters to ultra-high net worth individuals and corporations alike. Founded in London, England in 2000 by Ben Elliot, Aaron Simpson and Paul Drummond, Quintessentially Lifestyle has been providing members with its award-winning lifestyle management and concierge services for more than a decade, offering specialist advice, insider access and exclusive benefits."We are pleased to have the opportunity to represent an international and highly renowned company like Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada. Their luxury concierge services are unique and they are making access to a life of luxury more accessible. We have exciting plans to help Quintessentially gain visibility and achieve their goals," added Jonathan Tick, President and CEO of DECK Agency.Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada is expanding quickly, providing the perfect opportunity for DECK Agency to showcase their expertise in PR and strategic creative work. With Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada launching new membership and lifestyle management options, and continuing to form exclusive relationships with top luxury lifestyle providers, DECK Agency will be able to help direct the business and spread the message of how Quintessentially Lifestyle Canada can help members make the most out of their lives.For more information please go to www.quintessentially.com.About Quintessentially CanadaQuintessentially Lifestyle Canada is a part of the world's leading international private members' club, Quintessentially Lifestyle. The global company provides a unique business model, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and for more than a decade has been providing members with its award-winning lifestyle management and concierge services. In addition to the concierge service, 32 luxury sister businesses compose the wider Quintessentially Group, covering every facet of the luxury lifestyle market, including Travel, Real Estate, Wine, Art, Luxury Retail, Events, Public Relations, Publishing and more. With more than 60 offices worldwide, speaking over 35 languages, Quintessentially is a true multinational and multilingual service offering.About DECK AgencyDECK Agency is a leading branding and communications studio that has proven to drive incremental growth for luxury brands. As a full service agency, DECK crafts effective content and public relations strategies geared to organically propel brands into sustained popularity. The agency's broad scope of services includes public relations, experiential programming, events, and branding. For more information, visit www.deckagency.com and/or follow them on Instagram and Twitter '@deckagency'.