OTTAWA and BOSTON, MA--(Marketwired - Jul 8, 2013) - BTI Systems, the software and networking leader empowering content and service providers to capitalize on trends in cloud services, mobility and Internet video, today announced that PT Mora Telematika Indonesia (Moratel) has deployed BTI's Metro Networking and Ethernet Business Services Solutions to create a multiservice network for Indonesia's top mobile operator. The deployment, stretching from Pekanbaru to Singapore, will serve as a network model for comparable future applications in six other Indonesian cities. BTI worked with local partner PT Interprima Indocomm on the deployment.Established in 2000, Moratel is a wholesale telecom infrastructure provider. Headquartered in Indonesia, Moratel serves Tier-1 carriers including the country's leading mobile operator, which sought to develop a multiservice network that could handle Ethernet, SDH/SONET and DWDM -- all on the same platform. Moratel selected BTI for the project because its innovative, scalable solutions support multiprotocol packet and optical services, and are extremely easy to learn and fast to deploy."BTI has rapidly delivered -- throughout the entire engagement. We needed to go live in a compressed timeframe and BTI worked with us throughout the holiday season and provided excellent support, ensuring we hit our customer's timeline," said Syarif Lumitarjo, General Manager - Product & Business Development for Moratel. "Additionally, BTI's scalable, reliable solutions allow for seamless growth and integration with existing equipment -- exactly what the customer required. We look forward to leveraging BTI's solutions in several more cities, and sustaining a mutually beneficial and successful partnership."The core component of BTI's Metro Networking Solution is the BTI 7000 Series, a compact, modular and easy-to-use intelligent networking infrastructure system. Providing large scalability, a flexible infrastructure and greater reach, it converges packet and optical layers for simplified management, easier service provisioning and faster time-to-service. And featuring a pay-as-you-grow model, the BTI 7000 Series enables users to easily develop and capitalize on new business opportunities.The BTI 7000 Series is also an essential element of BTI's Ethernet Business Services Solution. The high-performance, scalable solution serves as a foundation for next-generation carrier service delivery. Featuring rich QoS capabilities, low latency, and end-to-end performance monitoring, the BTI Ethernet Business Services Solution delivers service providers the highest level of availability and visibility, enabling new service revenue opportunity."We are excited to be working with a true telecom infrastructure and services pioneer, and for helping establish a network benchmark for future deployments," said Fahim Sheikh, Vice President of Sales for BTI in Asia Pacific. "We welcome continued collaboration with Moratel as they execute the next phases of this multicity, multiservice deployment."About BTI Systems BTI delivers solutions that transform the economics, performance and innovation of global networks through intelligent networking software and systems. Leading content, cloud and service providers choose BTI to drive improved operational efficiencies and profitably deliver high-value services to businesses and consumers around the globe. With more than 350 customers, BTI is headquartered in North America, and operates regional sales, marketing, and R&D centers of excellence throughout the world. For more information, visit www.btisystems.com.All product and company names herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.