NEW YORK (MainStreet)—Saving for retirement can be tough to stomach. We know it’s important, but it’s difficult to plan for something that’s years, and for some people, decades away. A survey from the Employee Benefit Research Institution showed that 57% of consumers have less than $25,000 saved for retirement, while nearly half of the participants lacked confidence about being able to afford a comfortable lifestyle during retirement.
See also:5 Ways to Save in a Beer Boom
Two widely used retirement accounts are the 401(k) and the Roth IRA. The 401(k) allows consumers to contribute pre-tax dollars, while money contributed to a Roth IRA has already been taxed. The 2013 contribution limits for the 401(k) is $17,500 and $5,500 for the Roth IRA. Contributing to both accounts undoubtedly maximizes your retirement savings goals, but this nonetheless makes for a daunting task, especially if you’re living paycheck to paycheck. Figuring out which account you should allocate more money to largely depends on how robust of a 401(k) program your employer offers. “Many employers choose to match each dollar you contribute to your plan," says Ruth Ann Potts, manager at COUNTRY Financial. "If your employer provides this matching contribution, you want to at least contribute enough money to get the full employer matching contribution. For example if the match is 50% for every dollar you contribute up to a maximum of 6%, you would want to contribute at least 6%. For anything less than that you are giving up 'free' money.” If you’re able to save money beyond the threshold needed to secure your employer’s match, Potts suggests directing that extra money towards the Roth IRA. A perk of the Roth IRA is the ability to withdraw your original contributions (excluding the amount of money earned from the growth of the investments) at any time without penalties. With the 401(k), you’re subject to a 10% penalty, if you are withdrawing prior to age 59.5.
See also: This Could be Your Next $9-Million Home in Silicon Valley
If you find yourself in a situation where you lose a job or need cash for an unexpected emergency, you can count on your Roth IRA for assistance. In this sense, it’s important not to ignore allocating money towards your Roth IRA. Though it’s always wise to keep a separate savings account for these emergencies, since the purpose of a retirement account is to park your money there for as long as possible to take advantage of compounding interest. If you want to have the best of both worlds – that is, a hybrid account between the 401(k) and the Roth IRA, enter the Roth 401(k), which some employers are now offering. The money you contribute to the Roth 401(k) is, like the Roth IRA, after tax dollars. But you also get the coveted employer-matching feature from the 401(k). Another benefit of the Roth 401(k) is that there are no income restrictions. In a standalone Roth IRA, you have to earn under $112,000 (filing single) for 2013 in order to open the account. As long as you’re making some level of contributions, you’re on the right track. Choosing between your 401(k) and the Roth IRA is a good problem to have, since it means you’ve taken the time and diligence to start to make a dent in your retirement savings.
Also see: Day-Trading Your 401(k)
Scott Gamm is founder of HelpSaveMyDollars.com and author of the forthcoming book MORE MONEY, PLEASE. It's Official: Action Alerts PLUS beats the S&P 500 with Dividends Reinvested! Cramer and Link were up 16.72% in 2012. Were you? See what they are trading for 14-days FREE.10 Highest Beer Prices In Major League BaseballTop ETFs for Your Retirement SavingsWhy the Facebook Phone Is so Good for Google