DAYTONA BEACH, FL--(Marketwired - Aug 28, 2013) - Suite Journeys, has announced today the overwhelming success of their travel club membership program and has made it their mission to help more Americans travel. The company has been making headlines recently due to their unique travel service that includes guaranteed rates with concierge service. The company has now decided to increase member capacity to accommodate demand.Suite Journeys was founded out of a need to provide American families the opportunity to travel and vacation at affordable rates. The decline of the timeshare industry has resulted in skyrocketing travel and vacation costs for those without vacation club memberships or privileged relationships within the travel industry. The exclusive wholesale members-only travel club through Suite Journeys gives their members discounts on anything from cruises and vacation packages, to restaurant discounts at up to 70% off the retail price. Members are given a login and password to their interactive website to start accessing deals on travel packages immediately.Along with viewing deals on the internet, Suite Journeys provides personal concierge service to tailor a personal solution according to one's lifestyle and budget. A member's concierge is assigned to each individual member, assisting them through the entire process. This type of service has been extremely hard to find in the past as would-be travelers were left on their own to try and find the best deals by scouring the internet. Suite Journeys guarantees its members the lowest rates and the most luxurious vacations every time.The travel industry has experienced an encouraging rebound over the last few years on the heels of renewed consumer confidence in travel clubs. Companies like Suite Journeys in Daytona Beach are encouraging Americans to travel again by offering affordable and unforgettable vacation experiences. Offered only to their members, Suite Journeys enticing travel packages have revolutionized the travel industry by offering services and amenities previously only available to timeshare owners, without the headache and restrictive contracts."We're floored with the caliber of service we got from our concierge," exclaimed Bill Chaffe, Suite Journeys member sent by postcard while on vacation in the Bahamas. "I never dreamed a luxurious vacation could be so affordable!"Suite Journeys has cultivated relationships throughout the past decade with leading transportation and accommodation companies that allow for massive savings on amazing locations around the world. These business affiliations guarantee the absolute lowest rates on travel and vacation packages.More information about Suite Journeys can be obtained on their website at www.suitejourneys.com or by calling them at 386-682-2878.