MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Mar 31, 2014) -
Ooyala, the leading innovator in premium video publishing, analytics and monetization, today released its Q4 2013 Global Video Index, revealing record growth of mobile and tablet online viewing. Increasing 719 percent since Q4 2011, the year-over-year growth validates the opportunity for broadcasters to build and monetize cross-device experiences, and for advertisers to reach more audiences as mobile and tablet viewers multiply. At its current pace, Ooyala projects mobile and tablet viewership will account for half of all online videos by 2016.Explosive Growth in Mobile and Tablet Viewing A recent Ooyala survey showed 99 percent of respondents from hundreds of broadcasters and publishers see mobile as important or critical to their online experience. This has been evidenced around the globe by recent TV-everywhere offerings from Univision and Foxtel's new movie streaming service, Presto.As video-capable mobile devices proliferate and mainstream broadcasters launch new multi-screen deployments, mobile online viewing continues to increase at rapid rates. The time consumers spent watching video on mobile and tablets exceeded one fourth of all online viewing this quarter alone. More than half of mobile viewers' time was spent watching video longer than 30 minutes in Q4, compared to 35 percent for tablet users. Additionally mobile video share of plays increased by 21 percent from Q3 to Q4 2013.Sports Viewing Surges on All Devices Ooyala's Q4 Index also found that sports broadcasters are among the most progressive in pushing advanced technology to their audiences, and sports fans are the hungriest consumers of video across all screens. On average, mobile viewers watched live sports three times longer in one sitting than when watching video-on-demand (VOD), and tablet viewers watched live sports more than twice as long in one sitting than all other live video as a whole. In terms of device behavior, connected TV users spent 87 percent of their total sports viewing time watching videos longer than 10 minutes compared to 62 percent on mobile. However, mobile users often stay connected for longer periods of time to watch recaps and game highlights.More highlights from Q4 2013 Global Video Index:Viewers watched, on average, more than 42 minutes of live video per play on connected TVs, and nearly 35 minutes per play on PCs. Tablets streamed live content nearly two times more than VOD content. Tablet share grew six percent over the course of the year, while mobile share of all videos played grew at 10 times that rate. Mobile and tablets combined for over 18 percent of time played in October, and reached over 26 percent by the end of December, a 43 percent increase."Sports properties are the leading innovators in digital distribution, especially when it comes to live and mobile viewing," said Jay Fulcher, chief executive officer of Ooyala. "Our data continues to show major shifts in the way people consume TV and video, pointing to a global opportunity for broadcasters -- particularly when sports are involved -- to engage and increase their audience and maximize content rights monetization."About Ooyala's Global Index Report Ooyala's Global Video Index report measures the anonymized viewing habits of nearly 200 million viewers in more than 130 countries every month, and processes billions of video analytics events each day. The company's industry-leading analytics technology and real-time Big Data architecture help media companies, broadcasters, service providers and brands earn more money with mobile, multi-screen video.About Ooyala Ooyala delivers personalized video experiences across all screens and is a leader in online video management, publishing, analytics and monetization. Ooyala's integrated suite of technologies and services gives content owners the power to expand audiences through deep insights that drive increased viewer engagement and revenue from video. Companies using Ooyala technology include Foxtel, Telstra, Univision, ESPN, Pac-12 Enterprises, Bloomberg, Telegraph Media Group, Telefonica, The North Face, Rolling Stone, Dell, Sephora and Yahoo! Japan. Headquartered in Mountain View, California, Ooyala has offices in New York City, London, Sydney, Tokyo and Guadalajara, Mexico. The company works with premier reseller and technology partners throughout the Americas, Europe, Africa, Japan and the Asia-Pacific region. For more information, visit www.ooyala.com.