NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- CHANGE IN RATINGS
Abbvie
was upgraded at Morgan Stanley to overweight from equal-weight. $49 price target. Expect higher Humira sales and the company has a solid pipeline, Morgan Stanley said.
Barrick Gold
was downgraded at Deutsche Bank to hold from buy. $22.50 price target. Earnings will likely fall, along with the underlying price of gold, Deutsche Bank said.
Alkermes
was downgraded at Lazard Capital Markets to neutral from buy. Valuation call, as the stock gained 25% last week, Lazard Capital Markets said.
Baker Hughes
was downgraded at Argus Research to sell from hold. Accounts receivables and inventory have continued to deteriorate, Argus Research said.
Carnival
was downgraded at Nomura to neutral from buy. $37.50 price target. Valuation call, as yield pricing remains soft, Nomura said.
Also see: Top Insider Trades >>
Cabot Oil & Gas
was initiated with a hold rating at Deutsche Bank. Valuation call, based on a $75 price target, Deutsche said.
First Horizon
was upgraded at Compass Point to neutral from sell. $10 price target. Stock is already pricing in expected net interest margin compression, Compass Point said.
General Electric
was downgraded at J.P. Morgan to neutral. $22 price target. Company has less visibility and is losing its status as a safety stock, J.P. Morgan said.
Also see: Stop Buying General Electric: J.P. Morgan >>
Kimberly-Clark
was downgraded at Bank of America to neutral. Full valuation and outperformance vs. the sector, said Bank of America / Merrill Lynch.
MDC
was upgraded at Credit Suisse to neutral from underperform. Checks show that industry demand remained strong through mid-April, Credit Suisse said.
Newmont Mining
was downgraded at Deutsche Bank to sell from hold. $24 price target. Expect a funding gap in the sector, given lower commodity prices, Deutsche Bank said.
Netflix
was upgraded at B. Riley to neutral from sell. $165 price target. Stock has pulled back 17% over the past month, ahead of tonight's quarterly report, B. Riley said.
Penn National
was downgraded at Morgan Stanley to equal-weight Valuation call, as the stock exceeded the previous target, Morgan Stanley said.
Perrigo
was upgraded at J.P. Morgan. Company has multiple growth drivers in place, J.P. Morgan said.
USG
was upgraded at Credit Suisse to neutral from underperform. $27 price target. Stock has pulled back, even though wallboard pricing is improving, Credit Suisse said.
Also see: Apple Earnings Preview: Guidance, Guidance, Guidance >>
VF Corp
was upgraded at Wedbush to outperform from neutral. $200 price target. Flight to quality with a catalyst, Wedbush said.
Valmont Industries
upgraded at Wedbush to outperform from neutral. $170 price target. Solid quarter underscores strength in fundamentals, Wedbush said.
STOCK COMMENTS/EPS CHANGES
Amazon.com numbers cut at Bank of America/Merrill Lynch. Shares now seen reaching $310. Estimates also reduced, given lower expected international growth, BofA/Merrill said. Buy rating.
Baker Hughes
estimates were increased at UBS to reflect modestly higher margin assumptions for the Middle East and Latin America.
Capital One Financial
numbers were raised at Citigroup. Shares are now seen reaching $65. Estimates were also increased given lower expenses in 2014. Buy rating.
General Electric
earnings estimates were reduced at Nomura through 2014 to reflect new guidance. Earnings growth was reduced in the industrial segment but higher for GE Capital, Nomura said.
Kimberly-Clark
price target and estimates were increased at UBS to reflect record first-quarter earnings. Price target goes to $104.
McDonald's
estimates, price target were reduced at Credit Suisse. Shares are now seen reaching $110. Estimates also cut, given the company's new guidance. Outperform rating.
Nike
price target was increased at UBS to $68. High single-digit revenue growth will lead to mid-teens EPS growth over the next several years, UBS said.
Procter & Gamble
estimates were increased at UBS were increased through 2014. Moderating input costs and higher benefits from savings programs along with share gains in the U.S. will benefit the March quarter, UBS said.
SunTrust Banks
estimates were reduced at UBS through 2014 on weaker revenue trends.
Safeway
estimates were reduced at UBS as margin pressure is expected to pick up as the year progresses.
Under Armour
price target and estimates were raised at UBS. Estimates through 2014 were increased. The next catalyst for the stock will be the June investor day in Baltimore, UBS said. Price target goes to $59.
UnitedHealth
estimates were reduced at UBS through 2014. Sequestration and a more cautious MA outlook, said UBS.
Follow TheStreet on Twitter and become a fan on Facebook.
>To submit a news tip, email: tips@thestreet.com.
It's Official: Action Alerts PLUS beats the S&P 500 with Dividends Reinvested! Cramer and Link were up 16.72% in 2012. Were you? See what they are trading for 14-days FREE.Netflix Rules Internet-TV but Should Deliver MoreApple Confronts Near-Mother of All Earnings Reports (Update 1)10 Most Expensive Trips To The Ballgame in 2013