NEW YORK ( TheStreet) -- As the federal government searches for ways to trim spending, President Obama has stressed some programs could face cuts and there would be cases where his proposals may be questioned.
As I've written, Obama's fiscal 2014 budget includes several proposals that are bound to directly impact the municipal bond market in a way never before seen. Further, the proposals could lead to higher taxes or costs for consumers as issuers of municipal bonds try to make up for any reductions caused by federal spending cuts.
The rating agencies are studying the proposals carefully. On Thursday, Moody's Investors Service pointed out another potential credit negative for municipal bonds. This one would affect funding that goes toward a revolving loan fund program state and local governments can use to finance, build and manage wastewater facilities. It was created in 1987 by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
The program allows State Revolving Funds (SRF) officials to make loans to local governments for specific water pollution-control purposes. Specifically they are called Clean Water and Drinking Water SRFs. Loan repayments, including interest, are used to make new loans to municipalities. The process has been a cost-effective way for state and local governments to finance their water and sewer projects because money is essentially recycled to finance more projects than could be financed through federal grants alone.
>>Also see: Global Macro: Central Banks Fail to Create Demand >>
The problem with Obama's budget proposal as it relates to the programs is that it calls for funding to SRFs to be cut by 20% or $472 million. Moody's noted this finding in a report called "Proposed Cuts to State Revolving Funds Could Have Negative Credit Implications Over the Long Term." Moody's pointed out SRFs do not rely on federal funding to cover existing debt service. However, there could come a time when the weakened funding from the federal government may affect these funds' ability to issue debt.
SRFs allow for municipal entities to receive low-interest-rate loans. The loans are funded with the proceeds from municipal bond sales, state funds and federal grants. The low interest rates that the borrowers of these loans can receive are one of the reasons there is such a strong demand for them.
Municipalities throughout the country are facing mounting pressures from the EPA to make sure their water and wastewater systems are operating up to par. Failure to comply can lead to a municipality being hit with legal action. When this happens, it is given a deadline to comply with EPA rules. If these deadlines are missed, the municipality could face stiff monetary penalties that can easily go into the millions of dollars.
If Obama's spending cuts for the program become law, it may limit how many loans are doled out. Recognizing the ramifications municipalities could face if the loans are reduced or simply no longer available, Moody's analysts believe administrators of the SRFs may choose to issue more bonds in order to maintain their current funding levels. This would reduce their credit quality because their equity levels will be lower, which reduces the buffer, or default tolerance, that SRF bond programs have in case borrowers default on their loans.
>>Also see: Muni Bond Players Smoking Over Obama Plans to Hike Cigarette Taxes >>
As far as the grants are concerned, Moody's points out SRFs typically rely on the annual funding to make direct loans to borrowers that have weaker credit profiles, instead of including them in the bond programs. If these grants are reduced, it could limit the capacity of SRFs to make loans to these weaker borrowers. If they include them in the bond programs, they could even drag down the credit quality of the entire loan pool.
Near-term effects of the proposal, if it is even approved by Congress, are minimal. Moody's noted them as follows:
I've reported on the reaction to items in Obama's fiscal 2014 budget plan by the municipal bond industry. These include the 28% cap Obama proposes be placed on the amount of interest that buyers of municipal bonds could deduct from their federal taxes.
In addition, Obama is proposing that the excise tax on cigarettes be raised. This has caused concern that cigarette makers may suffer a loss in revenue. The effect of this on the muni bond market relates to billions of dollars of settlement payments these tobacco companies are on the hook to pay several states.
The higher excise tax could lead to this revenue stream decreasing, forcing states that used the annual dollars to back bonds to make hard decisions to avoid on the outstanding debt.
At the time of publication the author had no position in any of the stocks mentioned.
Follow @tedradesue
This article was written by an independent contributor, separate from TheStreet's regular news coverage.
Borrower loan repayments remain the main source of debt service payment. Most programs have high levels of reserves or excess loans that cover debt service by a high margin. About 77% of SRF programs have very high default tolerance levels of above 30%. Most SRF programs are secured by a large and diverse pool of borrowers and the overall credit quality of their borrowers is not expected to change materially. Subsidized interest rates charged by SRF programs cannot be easily changed without limiting access to the pool. The rates are designed to meet the public policy goal of providing affordable capital to local governments in order to meet environmental regulatory requirements. It's Official: Action Alerts PLUS beats the S&P 500 with Dividends Reinvested! Cramer and Link were up 16.72% in 2012. Were you? See what they are trading for 14-days FREE.Netflix Rules Internet-TV but Should Deliver MoreApple Confronts Near-Mother of All Earnings Reports (Update 1)10 Most Expensive Trips To The Ballgame in 2013