tom cruise oblivionMoreUniversalWith no other big releases out this weekend, Tom Cruise's "Oblivion" easily soars at the box office.Tom Cruise is back on top at the box office.After a few Hollywood misses last year in "Rock of Ages" and "Jack Reacher," Cruise surges back to theaters with "Oblivion."   Sequels aside, "Oblivion" was Cruise's largest opening at theaters since 2005's "War of the Worlds" ($64.9 million).  Out of the top ten this week is "Tyler Perry's Temptation." After four weeks, the movie has earned $49 million.  Here are this week's winners and losers in Hollywood:  10. After seven weeks, "Oz the Great and Powerful" featuring James Franco finally falls to the bottom of the top ten with $3 million. Disney's first film of the year has earned $478 million worldwide. It cost an estimated $215 million to produce.  9. The 3D re-release of "Jurassic Park" falls three spots this week earning $4 million. After three weeks, the film has taken in $38.5 million.  8. Bruce Campbell's "Evil Dead" also drops three spots this week with $4.1 million in week three. The remake of the 1983 film is earning the majority of its $61.7 million gross in the U.S (79%).  7. Gerard Butler's "Olympus Has Fallen" adds another $4.5 million to its $94.1 million gross worldwide. The movie, about the takeover of the White House, has only earned $5.3 million overseas. It's Butler's first real hit since 2010's "The Bounty Hunter."  6. With its wide release over the weekend, Ryan Gosling and Bradley Cooper's "The Place Beyond the Pines" moves up four spots this week earning $4.7 million. The Focus Features picture has earned $11.4 million since its limited release at the end of March. It cost an estimated $15 million to produce.  5. "G.I. Joe: Retaliation" is doing well at theaters one month in earning $5.8 million. The sequel, featuring Bruce Willis, The Rock, and Channing Tatum has earned the majority of its $322.9 million earnings overseas ($211.7 million).   4. Lindsay Lohan's return to the big screen with Charlie Sheen in "Scary Movie 5" drops two spots in its second week with $6.3 million. The film, which cost an estimated $20 million to make, has earned $26.6 million. Out of all the films in the "Scary Movie" franchise, the latest installment has earned the least amount of money. In comparison, "Scary Movie 4" earned $40.2 million opening weekend.  3. It's no surprise DreamWorks Animation just signed off on a sequel for "The Croods." In week five, the film following a family of cavemen earned another $9.5 million to add to its $427.2 million gross worldwide. Before the summer onslaught comes, "The Croods" is currently one of the highest-grossing films of the year—great news for DreamWorks Animation which was hurting at the end of last year after "Rise of the Guardians."2. Jackie Robinson film, " 42 " earns a huge $18 million in its second week. Featuring Harrison Ford, the film has passed its $40 million estimated production budget earning $54 million to date.1. Forget the reviews comparing it to nearly every other Sci-Fi film, " Oblivion " wins the weekend huge for Tom Cruise with $38.2 million. Released a week prior overseas, the film has already crossed the $100 million mark bringing its worldwide total to $150 million.More From Business Insider 'The Great Gatsby' Soundtrack Sounds As Amazing As The Film LooksDarkness Is Coming In The Latest 'Star Trek' TrailerJackie Robinson Movie '42' Hits 'Scary Movie 5' Out Of The Park—Here's Your Box-Office Roundup