For Immediate Release Chicago, IL –April 22, 2013 – Today, Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights Features: Jarden Corporation (JAH), Apollo Group Inc. (APOL), Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR), Kadant Inc. (KAI) and Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (WYN).Stocks with Hot Earnings Streaks Wall Street calls it "managing expectations."The rest of us call it "earnings season."Yet for all the talk about how good companies are at massaging their numbers so that they beat the EPS estimate, there are, surprisingly, very few that can actually beat consistently quarter after quarter, year after year.Apple, for instance, used to be a member of this exclusive club. It hadn't missed for over 5 years until September 2011. Since that first miss, however, it has missed two out of the last four quarters.In recent quarters, it seems to have gotten even more difficult to continue with these streaks. Oil States International was looking golden until last quarter when it missed by 11 cents, or 5.8%. AGCO also seemed to be on track to keep its hot streak but 2 quarters ago it suddenly missed by 5 cents, or 5%.Never MissingI ran a screen on Zacks Research Wizard to find those companies that have either beaten or met estimates every quarter for the last 5 years. Those are the companies that have, technically, never missed. I came up with only 26 companies.But if you want the "pure" beat, i.e. companies that have only beaten every single quarter with no quarters where it also met the estimate, than the number is even smaller. I only found just 6 companies that haven't missed on earnings over the last 5 years.That's out of 4,400 companies that Zacks covers.Not only did these companies have to navigate the shock to the global economy in 2008 and 2009, but they also managed to beat estimates at the same time. Impressive.Worth Investing In?But just because a company has managed its earnings reports well doesn't mean that it's necessarily worth buying. In this case, out of the 6 stocks, 5 are a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) and one stock is a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy).Of course, anything can happen this earnings season (just ask Oil States), so the streak isn't a guarantee of future performance.But it can be an indication of a management team that knows how to control expectations and then knows how to deliver just a little bit more than expected. It may not be a coincidence that Apple only started missing after Steve Jobs had died and new management had taken over.Love 'em or hate 'em, these stocks haven't missed in five years.Can they keep it going this earnings season?Jarden Corporation (JAH)Jarden makes well known consumer products like Mr. Coffee, Crockpot and First Alert.Scheduled to report: Apr 24 Average surprise last 4 quarters: 7.3% Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy) Forward P/E = 13Apollo Group Inc. (APOL)Apollo is better known through its flagship brand, The University of Phoenix. The company provides online and on campus higher education in undergraduate, master's and doctoral programs.Scheduled to report: June 24 Average surprise last 4 quarters: 38.9% Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) Forward P/E = 6.3Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR)Dollar Tree operates thousands of stores in the lower 48 states which sell food and other consumer items for $1.00 each.Scheduled to report: May 23 Average surprise last 4 quarters: 4.2% Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) Forward P/E = 16.9Kadant Inc. (KAI)Kadant has been serving global manufacturing customers for 100 years. It makes fiber processing products, fluid handling and doctoring, cleaning and filtration systems.Scheduled to report: Apr 24 Average surprise last 4 quarters: 24.5% Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) Forward P/E = 10.9Wyndham Worldwide Corporation (WYN)Wyndham is one of the largest hospitality companies in the world with hotels, vacation rentals and fractional ownership properties.Scheduled to report: Apr 24 Average surprise last 4 quarters: 4.8% Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) Forward P/E = 17.1About ZacksZacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Len Zacks. The company continually processes stock reports issued by 3,000 analysts from 150 brokerage firms.  It monitors more than 200,000 earnings estimates, looking for changes.Then when changes are discovered, they’re applied to help assign more than 4,400 stocks into five Zacks Rank categories:  #1 Strong Buy, #2 Buy, #3 Hold, #4 Sell, and #5 Strong Sell. This proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin.  The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter Profit from the Pros.  In short, it’s your steady flow of profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time.  Get your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at:  http://at.zacks.com/?id=7298Story continuesFollow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/ZacksResearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/ZacksInvestmentResearchZacks Investment Research is under common control with affiliated entities (including a broker-dealer and an investment adviser), which may engage in transactions involving the foregoing securities for the clients of such affiliates.Disclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com Read the analyst report on JAH Read the analyst report on APOL Read the analyst report on DLTR Read the analyst report on KAI Read the analyst report on WYN Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on JAH,APOL,DLTR,KAI,WYN