For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – April 22, 2013 – Zacks.com announces the list of stocks featured in the Analyst Blog. Every day the Zacks Equity Research analysts discuss the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets. Stocks recently featured in the blog include Dell Inc. (DELL), Blackstone (BX), Hewlett-Packard (HPQ), Apple Inc. (AAPL) and Symantec Corp. (SYMC).Get the most recent insight from Zacks Equity Research with the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5513Here are highlights from Friday’s Analyst Blog: Dell Finalizes Icahn’s StakeThe board of Dell Inc. (DELL) has fixed the ownership stake of Carl Icahn and his associate entities to not more than 10.0% of the company's shares.This deal also covers shareholders other than Ichan, who would jointly hold more than 15.0% of Dell’s outstanding shares.Some of Dell’s shareholders have expressed their dissatisfaction with Michael Dell’s offer, after which Ichan and investment firm Blackstone (BX) have raised the bid.Icahn already has a leading position among minority shareholders and could therefore make it difficult for Michael Dell to acquire the controlling stake.Moreover, this has been a major hurdle for Dell's board, who were more inclined toward Michael Dell and an investment group led by Silver Lake Partners to take the controlling stake.Icahn has announced that he has rejected Dell's offer of $25.0 million as expense reimbursements if he agreed not to attempt a hostile takeover.The latest decision regarding the stake came quickly, as Icahn Enterprises received an approval to terminate the normal waiting period -- i.e. within a period of 6 days -- which is generally needed before somebody can acquire a 25% ownership stake.Considering the latest developments, Dell’s future remains uncertain. In the past year, the company has had its share of challenges, as cutthroat competition from Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) and Apple Inc. (AAPL), as well as a restricted spending environment hurt revenues.Moreover, privatization might help Dell move away from public scrutiny, but the decision regarding ownership is taking some time to settle.Dell Inc. has a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell). Therefore, we would instead recommend Symantec Corp. (SYMC), which has a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). Currently, shares of Ford retain a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold).Want more from Zacks Equity Research? Subscribe to the free Profit from the Pros newsletter: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5515.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today: http://at.zacks.com/?id=5517About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leon Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks Investment Research is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=5518.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.com  Read the analyst report on DELL Read the analyst report on BX Read the analyst report on HPQ Read the analyst report on AAPL Read the analyst report on SYMC Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on DELL,BX,HPQ,AAPL,SYMC