MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA--(Marketwired - Aug 9, 2013) - Appcelerator, the leading mobile enterprise platform, today announced that it has been named as a "visionary" company with the highest placement for vision and execution by Gartner in the Magic Quadrant for Mobile Application Development Platforms. This marks the second consecutive year that Appcelerator has been named to the Visionary Quadrant. To date, more than 1,400 enterprises around the world have chosen Appcelerator as the mobile platform for their mobile-first initiatives."We believe Appcelerator's position as the most visionary company by Gartner in the MADP Magic Quadrant recognizes our ability to establish an industry-leading vision for enterprise mobility," said Jeff Haynie, CEO of Appcelerator. "We're proud to offer solutions trusted by thousands of enterprises and more than 480,000 mobile developers."The Appcelerator Platform is purpose-built for mobile, enabling companies to design, develop, test and analyze native, hybrid and mobile web apps for any device. With the Appcelerator Cloud and Appcelerator Marketplace, enterprise customers have access to a rich ecosystem of mobile connectors and third-party mobile modules (SAP, Oracle, Salesforce, etc.) as well as on-demand mobile cloud services such as push notification, social connections, authorization and much more."Mobile apps follow a different delivery lifecycle from traditional desktop and internet-based applications," said Jonathan Rende, vice president of products at Appcelerator. "They run on a much wider range of devices and operating systems requiring connection to a multitude of data sources, they're enhanced on a more frequent basis, and user expectations for usability and performance are sky high. To get it right, a company needs to understand when, where, and how its apps are being used, and on what kinds of devices. The Appcelerator Platform covers this new mobile lifecycle end-to-end, from the initial design and prototyping, through development and testing, and on to the analytics needed to understand the user's experience."Story continuesWith more than 150 million devices running Appcelerator-powered apps, Appcelerator provides the most widely deployed option for mobile application development in the world.Download a complimentary copy of the 2013 Gartner Magic Quadrant for Mobile Application Development Platforms at www.appcelerator.com/gartner/Watch the Appcelerator webinar "Transforming Your Enterprise with Mobile," featuring Gartner Research Director Ken Parmelee: www.appcelerator.com/gartner-webinar/Disclaimer:
Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.About Appcelerator Appcelerator® offers the only platform built for a Mobile First world. The Appcelerator Platform enables enterprises to create, deliver and analyze their entire mobile application portfolio. With nearly 60,000 mobile applications deployed on over 150 million devices, the Appcelerator Platform helps enterprises accelerate their time to market and deliver exceptional mobile user experiences. Appcelerator also provides an award-winning open source mobile development environment, Titanium®. Appcelerator's worldwide ecosystem includes more than 480,000 mobile developers and hundreds of ISVs and strategic partners, among them SAP, Cognizant and CSC. It is the mobile platform of choice for thousands of companies including eBay, Tui Travel, Merck, Mitsubishi Electric, ZipCar, and Pay-Pal. For more information, visit www.appcelerator.com.