KANSAS CITY, MO--(Marketwired - Aug 10, 2013) - Grantham University, www.grantham.edu, an accredited online university serving working adults, will recognize 1,902 associate, bachelor's and master's degree graduates at its commencement ceremony today, Saturday, August 10, 2013, at 2 p.m., in the Kansas City Convention Center's Grand Ballroom.Of the nearly two thousand graduates of the online institution, 260 are expected to attend in person, along with 1,700 friends and family, making this the largest live graduation event in Grantham University history.Major General Steve Danner, The Adjutant General of the State of Missouri, will deliver the keynote address. The Class of 2013 will be represented by First Sergeant Steven Kelly, U.S. Army Retired.Grantham University's dedication to serving military students and veterans is reflected in its 2013 graduating class. Nearly two-thirds of the expected 260 attendants are currently serving or have served in the United States Armed Forces. Of those, nearly half are active duty, guard or reserve, 20% are retired military, 32% are veterans and 5% are military spouses. For more details on Commencement, go to www.grantham.edu/graduation/. "What makes Grantham University so special is not just our ability to deliver outstanding quality education that fits with our students' lives, it's our unique way of making life-long, personal connections with students from across the globe," says Joseph McGrath, Grantham University President. "Commencement is often the first time our students meet some of their favorite staff face-to-face. We are thrilled that so many of them are planning to attend, and we're excited about what the future has in store for all our graduates."About Grantham University: Grantham University is one of the oldest, private, post-secondary, degree-granting distance learning universities in the United States. Grantham was founded in 1951 by Donald Grantham, a veteran of World War II, to help prepare veterans for new jobs and a better future upon their return to civilian life. Today, the University supports thousands of online students in 38 different associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs. Accredited since 1961 by the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council, Grantham University has compiled a distinguished record as a respected and accredited distance learning university spanning six decades of service to education. For more information, visit www.grantham.edu or call 1-800-955-2527.