OTTAWA, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Aug 9, 2013) -
The Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) and White Veal Meat Packers Ltd. (EST 412) are warning the public not to consume Veal Liver described below because they may be contaminated with E. coli O157:H7.The affected product, Veal Liver, was sold from the following retail stores in Quebec from July 31, 2013 to August 9, 2013, inclusive.
Product Size Sold from
Veal Liver Variable weight Boucherie Al Khair Inc., 428 av. Lafleur, Lasalle
Boucherie Al Khair Inc., 1550 boul. Daniel Johnson, Laval
Boucherie Al Khair Inc., 300 rue Jean-Talon E, Montréal
Les Caprices d'Al-Adhba Inc., 2235 rue Saint-Rémi, Laval
Consumers who are unsure if they have purchased the affected product are advised to contact their retailer.There have been no reported illnesses associated with the consumption of this product.Food contaminated with E. coli O157:H7 may not look or smell spoiled. Consumption of food contaminated with these bacteria my cause serious and potentially life-threatening illnesses. Symptoms include severe abdominal pain and bloody diarrhoea. Some people may have seizures or strokes and some may need blood transfusions and kidney dialysis. Others may live with permanent kidney damage. In severe cases of illness, people may die.White Veal Meat Packers Ltd., (EST 412), Toronto, ON is voluntarily recalling the affected product from the marketplace. The CFIA is monitoring the effectiveness of the recall.For more information, consumers and industry can contact the CFIA by filling out the online feedback form at http://www.inspection.gc.ca/contactus.For more information on foodborne pathogens, visit the Causes of Food Poisoning web page at: http://inspection.gc.ca/food_poisoningFor information on all food recalls, visit the CFIA's Food Recall Report at: http://www.inspection.gc.ca/recallsTo find out more about receiving recalls by e-mail, and other food safety facts, visit: www.foodsafety.gc.ca. Food and consumer product recalls are also available at http://www.healthycanadians.gc.ca