LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Jan 5, 2014) -  Liquipel LLC, (www.liquipel.com), the industry leader in Watersafe™ technology, and Global Comm (http://glblcomm.com/), a pioneer in corporate telecom solutions, today announced a new partnership: Liquipel Wireless Solutions. Liquipel Wireless Solutions includes the Liquipel 360 program which makes smartphones WaterSafe™, impact resistant, and insured. We manage communication and data accounts for corporate clientele across the continental United States. The announcement was made at the 2014 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nev.Liquipel's booth is at the Las Vegas Convention Center, South Hall 4, upper level, No. 36067.Liquipel Wireless Solutions customers will benefit from reduced costs on wireless communications, unrivaled support for everything from billing disputes to hands-on training, and will have all their smartphones protected against accidents involving liquids, scratches, drops and more. Phones can even be engraved with the owner's name, company logo, etc., and will be warrantied through additional Liquipel 360 insurance. These features come at no cost to qualifying businesses."Global Comm has been helping companies acquire, provision, integrate and manage their telecom needs," said Robbie Vega, president of Liquipel Wireless Solutions. "Now, combined with the award-winning technology behind Liquipel, we will be ushering in a new chapter in white-glove corporate care and protection."Based in Scottsdale, Ariz., Global Comm is one of Arizona's top 10 wireless companies and has been recognized by Ranking Arizona's The Best of Arizona Businesses every year from 2011 to 2014 as The Best of Wireless Companies in AZ. It was a Sprint Platinum Partners Award winner every year from 1997 to 2011, and has been regularly cited by carriers as the model to duplicate when it comes to selling and supporting medium- to enterprise-sized companies."As the world leader in consumer smartphone protection, Liquipel wants our customers to know that they can be confident and protected while using their wireless communication devices," said Sam Winkler, managing director of Liquipel LLC. "Businesses will no longer need to worry about the costs in time and money from employees damaging or destroying their phones."Story continuesFor more information and videos, please visit Liquipel's website, and follow us on Facebook and Twitter. To contact Liquipel, LLC, email info@liquipel.com.About Liquipel Liquipel LLC is the sole owner and licensor of Liquipel (http://www.liquipel.com/), an award-winning process that uses nanotechnology to make smartphones and other devices Watersafe™ from accidental exposure to water and other liquids. Since its debut at the Consumer Electronics Show 2012, it has won an Edison Award, a FierceWireless Fierce 15 Award, was named by Popular Science as the Grand Award Winner in the Gadgets Category for the magazine's "Best of What's New" issue. It has also been included in Entrepreneur Magazine's "100 Brilliant Companies" list. It is available in the United States, Australia, Hong Kong, South Korea, Malaysia, Israel, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. Liquipel makes us rethink how we utilize our electronic devices. By merging the latest in nanotechnology and consumer products, Liquipel creates a no limits lifestyle. For more information and videos, please visit Liquipel's website (www.liquipel.com), and follow us on Facebook and Twitter. To contact Liquipel, LLC, email info@liquipel.com.LIQUIPEL WIRELESS SOLUTIONS CONTACT Robbie Vega rvega@liquipelwireless.com
602-267-7767LICENSING CONTACT Sam Winkler Liquipel, LLC info@liquipel.com 1-85-liquipel