iStockMoreiStock You’re juggling enough as it is — balancing your cell phone on one shoulder, holding your youngest with one arm and carrying a box with the other. But something that can’t be dropped during the process of a move is your kids’ mental and physical health. Keeping them healthy and sane will make sure that you stay sane. After all, relocation is most stressful for you, the one who has to set everything up and handle all of the details. Your kids will definitely feel the inevitable tension of the move process. So, when moving with kids, consider these factors to keep everyone mentally OK before, during and after the big move.Stay OrganizedThis is perhaps the most overused piece of advice for a guide to anything in the English language, but there’s a reason for that. As you start to pack up all your belongings to send to the new place, set aside the medicines and documents you’ll need in a bind for any of your kids. For example, keep your family’s medical documents handy in case one of your children has something crazy happen, especially once you’ve gotten to the new house before you’ve made an appointment with the new pediatrician.Get All Shots Up-to-DateThe last thing you want while in the throes of relocation woes is dealing with recurrent bouts of the flu that could’ve been in part quelled by a flu shot. Make sure your kids’ shots are updated before you move to keep them healthy, happy and safe.CommunicateThis is another big one. To keep your kids emotionally healthy, it’s important to keep lines of dialogue open so they can let you know how they’re feeling. Although it’s good to espouse positivity about the move, give them the opportunity to express any uncertainties or anxieties to you beforehand. It’s helpful for them to be able to work through this and not feel like they need to only talk to you about the ostensible positives.If one of your kids is feeling especially anxious or depressed in advance of the move, it may be beneficial if he or she could talk to a therapist to work out these feelings. A big part of staying emotionally healthy – for both children and adults – involves checking in with oneself early and often. Helping your kids realize that this is a completely natural part of life will help them not only with the relocation but other future transitional periods in their lives. The lesson is an enduring one that will continue to benefit them down the road for having learned it an early age.Jennifer Morehead is a writer for Manilla and the founder of Moveboxer.com. Moveboxer makes moving easier. Moveboxer matches people up with reputable movers, provides a utility cancellation tool, helps people change their address, and connects people with mortgage, storage, boxes, supplies, and car transport.More from Manilla.com:Helping Fido Through Your Family MoveHow to Stop Your House from Leaking Money9 Things Your Homeowners Insurance May Not Cover