NEW YORK, NY--(Marketwired - August 18, 2013) -  Investor Relations shouldn't be left to just anyone.That's why famed producer Tom Bibiyan is going with the UnderValuedReport for his Investor Relations program. Says Mr. Bibiyan, "In the game of IR, it's hard to find genuinely talented people, but with this move I'm confident more eyes will be delivered and a public relations campaign will be one that bears some real fruit."About Tom Bibiyan
Tom Bibiyan is currently only twenty nine years of age, but has successfully consulted for over 100 publicly listed companies across the United States and Canada. His roster to date includes companies from the NASDAQ, AMEX (American Stock Exchange), and OTCBB (Over The Counter) exchanges. From United States Defense Contractors to International Gold Mining corporations, Mr. Bibiyan has effectively advised companies from a multitude of varying industries with grace and professionalism.Also a staunch supporter of the arts and innovation, Tom Bibiyan has recently produced unique content including short films, documentaries, and high quality webisodes. Having produced several projects by his mid-twenties, Tom Bibiyan is proud to have already collaborated on projects with A-List artists and actors such as Seth Green, Kim and Khloe Kardashian, Keri Hilson, and Danny Devito. Tom Bibiyan has also worked closely with Sundance Film Festival Nominees and Finalists, along with Television Casting Directors and Producers from shows such as Fear Factor, Bridezillas, LA Ink, Two and a Half Men, and the Big Bang Theory.UnderValued Report™  specializes in bringing small-cap and micro-cap companies of nearly every industry to the attention of the general public as well as the investing community. We believe that there are multitudes of undervalued companies that don't get the exposure they deserve. Many of them work in extremely lucrative markets and have outstanding growth potential, but they have been shunned by the majority of Wall Street. UVR strives to fully empower these undervalued companies so that they may reap all of the benefits of the public exposure we will help create.