LONDON, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Jan 29, 2014) -
Are winter blues getting the better of you? If so let Bridge & Wickers whisk you away for a sunny escape on the other side of the world. Bridge & Wickers offers bespoke travel to Australia, New Zealand and the South Pacific, providing a way for people to enjoy these destinations in tailor-made luxury.The Australian offerings include many in Tasmania, for example, Bridge & Wickers offers a six-day Tasmania in Style itinerary. The trip starts with a flight into Hobart and lodgings for three days at The Islington, a luxury hotel built in the Regency style in 1847. Travellers can dine at Peppermint Bay, famous for its seafood. There are also outdoor activities such as fishing and kayaking for the more active. Holiday-makers will then go to Freycinet National Park for the remaining three days of their Tasmanian trip, staying at the Saffire Freycinet; a dramatic work of architecture located on Coles Bay, which includes a spa, restaurant and forty luxurious rooms.Bridge & Wickers also has a selection of luxury holidays to New Zealand, one of which is the five-day Abel Tasman Guided Walk. Travellers can start their journey at either Nelson or Motueka and are taken to Kaiteriteri on a stunning cruise along the coastline to Totaranui. Once they arrive at Totaranui, they will walk south to Awaroa to see the rainforest and Awaroa estuary. The second day can be spent exploring Awaroa and the Abel Tasman National Park. On the third day, travellers go to Torrent Bay to walk to Onetahuti and the historic site of Tonga Quarry. Bark Bay is the lunch-stop and the perfect place to relax or swim. The night is spent in the splendid Torrent Bay Lodge, with the fourth day discovering Torrent Bay itself, including the historic Maori sites in Pitt Head. The fifth and final day covers the beautiful Abel Tasman coastal area. This itinerary is only one example of the fantastic luxury trips to New Zealand available with Bridge & Wickers.A trip to the South Pacific can also be arranged with Bridge & Wickers, for example a holiday to Fiji can include a stay at the Outrigger on the Lagoon Fiji. This five-star luxury resort is located in the centre of the Coral Coast in Fiji, and offers a choice of luxurious accommodation options, a white sandy beach, lush tropical gardens, pampering at the Bebe Spa Sanctuary and much more.Anyone wanting to plan a trip to Australia, New Zealand or the South Pacific should call Bridge & Wickers and talk to Gemma, Gina, David or Jeremy, each a dedicated travel expert.