QUALCOMM, Inc. (QCOM) F1Q 2014 Earnings Call January 29, 2014 4:45 PM ETExecutivesWarren Kneeshaw - Vice President of Investor RelationsPaul Jacobs - Executive Chairman of the BoardSteven Mollenkopf - President, Chief Executive Officer, DirectorGeorge Davis - Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice PresidentDerek Aberle - Executive Vice President, Group PresidentDon Rosenberg - Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate SecretaryAnalystsTim Long - BMO Capital MarketsMike Walkley - Canaccord GenuityTal Liani - Bank of America Merrill LynchBrian Modoff - Deutsche BankSimona Jankowski - Goldman SachsRomit Shah - NomuraEhud Gelblum - CitiRod Hall - JPMorganKulbinder Garcha - Credit SuisseMark McKechnie - EvercoreTavis McCourt - Raymond JamesMark Sue - RBC Capital MarketsStacy Rasgon - Sanford BernsteinOperatorLadies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the QUALCOMM First Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)As a reminder, this conference is being recorded January 29, 2014. The playback number for today's call is 855-859-2056. International callers, please dial 404-537-3406. The playback reservation number is 31476192.I would now like to turn the call over to Warren Kneeshaw, Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr. Kneeshaw, please go ahead.Warren KneeshawThank you, Brent, and good afternoon. Today's call will include prepared remarks by Dr. Paul Jacobs; Steve Mollenkopf and George Davis. In addition, Derek Aberle and Don Rosenberg will join the question-and-answer session. An Internet presentation and audio broadcast is accompanying this call and you can access them by visiting our website at www.qualcomm.com.During this conference call, if we use non-GAAP financial measures defined in Regulation G, you can find the related reconciliations to GAAP on our website. I would also like to direct you to our 10-Q and earnings release, which were filed and furnished respectively with the SEC today and are available on our website.During this conference call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding future events or company results. Actual events or results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Please refer to our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K and 10-Q, which contain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.Now, I would like to introduce QUALCOMM's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Paul Jacobs.Paul JacobsThank you, Warren, and good afternoon, everyone. We are off to a solid start in fiscal 2014, and we are pleased to report record revenues this quarter driven by strong growth in both, QTC and QTL.Steve will provide more color on the businesses, but I did want to comment on the executive changes we recently announced. First, I am extreme pleased that Steve Mollenkopf will become our next Chief Executive Officer. He is an exceptional leader with a stellar track record over his 20 years at QUALCOMM.Throughout his tenure, he has played a critical role in developing a number of new technologies and strengthen our relationships with our industry partners. This change will ensure management continuity, will allow me to work on new technologies and help set the future direction for the company as Executive Chairman of the Board. I look forward to continuing to work closely with Steve and the rest of management team.Secondly, I wanted to thank our employees, customers and suppliers for their support over my tenure as CEO. We have seen tremendous change over the last almost nine years, I began my services CEO, we were predominantly known as the CDMA2000 Company.Fast-forward to today and we have developed a broadly license and diversified portfolio of technologies not only from an air interface perspective, but also in many other mobile technologies such as computing and connectivity, with an industry-leading approach of integrating these core technologies that define the mobile experience.Looking back, we had a vision for what a smartphone could be and we worked together with our partners to bring this vision to reality. Really dates back to the early 90s, when we had the idea to put the Internet protocols in to CDMA. We really knew that data will unlock tremendous opportunities for mobile devices. We were the first to put GPS in phones. We developed the first Palm OS based smartphone. We were pioneers in the mobile apps space with our Brew Appstore and we continue to lead with innovation such as first gigahertz smartphone processor and obviously more recently advanced multimedia technologies such as Ultra HD video capture and playback.Story continuesLooking forward, opportunities are vast. We work with our partners to help them expand their data capacity by up to 1,000 fold with solutions such as our small cells and other innovations such as LTE in unlicensed spectrum. We are helping to drive adoption of mobile technologies into several exciting new categories including automotive, healthcare and the connected home through our industry leading mobile computing connectivity offerings. And the AllSeen Alliance was recently formed to drive interoperability for the Internet of everything which is based on the use of the AllJoyn software framework.Now this industry leadership and vision has translated into strong business performance with revenues more than quadrupling and EPS more than tripling since Fiscal 2005. In addition, we have returned over $25 billion in capital to stockholders during this timeframe and recently announced our intent to return 75% of free cash flow to stockholders. We expect that we will more than double the amount returned to stockholders over the next five years as compared to the last five years.So we continue to be extremely excited about the future, but still in the early rounds of global smartphone adoption, we are in the early rounds of the transition to mobile computing and then we have this broad connection of the Internet of everything. So we have the right technologies and more importantly we have the team to execute on these opportunities ahead. So we are pleased with the start fiscal 2014 and I look forward to continue to work with our team to drive growth in the years ahead.Thank you and I will now turn the call over to Steven Mollenkopf.Steven MollenkopfGood afternoon, and thank you, Paul. I appreciate your kind words. I am humbled and extremely honored to have been named CEO elective of QUALCOMM. Under Paul's tenure as CEO, the company has established a leadership position in 3G, 4G and next-generation wireless technologies, developed a deep and diverse set of industry-leading mobile technologies and has generated extraordinary results. We are well-positioned to address the significant opportunities ahead and I look forward to guiding the company during its next phase of growth. Paul, I would like to thank you for your leadership and mentorship and I look forward to continuing to work closely with you in the years ahead. I am proud to have been given this opportunity and I look forward to assuming the CEO role in March.Turning to our fiscal first-quarter. Our QTL and QCT delivered strong financial results and we are off to a solid start to fiscal 2014. In the quarter, we also returned approximately $1.6 billion to shareholders in dividends and buyback activity, consistent with the increased capital return targets that we outlined in November. QTL had a strong quarter, in line with our expectations with revenue and earnings before tax of 8% and 9% respectively, year-over-year. Total reported device sales by our licensees was a record and above the midpoint of our prior guidance range. Global smartphone adoption continues to be a key driver of royalty revenue growth. In the fiscal first quarter we saw increased sequential shipments by our licensees of smartphones in emerging regions. According to Gartner, emerging regions smartphone shipments are expected to grow at close to 30% CAGR between 2012 and 2017. Globally, Gartner expects approximately 7 billion smartphones to be shipped from 2013 to 20 17.In QCT, revenues and MSM shipments were up 12% and 17% year-over-year respectively MSM shipments were above our expectations driven by demand in emerging regions. Actions taken to manage spending contributed to better than expected operating margins. From an operating expense standpoint, our outlook for moderate year-over-year growth remains on track. We are still investing in both the core businesses and new business opportunities and with our expense management initiatives this year, we continue to forecast that we will exit fiscal 2014 at a lower operating expense run rate for the company than we exited fiscal 2013.Tuning to China. We are pleased to see that the 4G spectrum licenses have now been issued. We are working closely with the operators as well as domestic and international OEMs to meet this new growth opportunity. We continue to add single mode OFDMA licensees including in China. Given the high degree of similarity between the TDD and FDD modes of the international LTE standard and our position as the leading contributor to LTE, the royalty payable by our licensees under their single mode or OFDMA licenses are the same for devices that implement either or both of the TDD and FDD modes of LTE. QUALCOMM continues to invest heavily in developing the leading and the most widely licensed portfolio of patented technologies applicable to 3G and 4G devices.For QTC, the growth of LTE, FDD and TDD in China aligns with our strength, both from supporting local Chinese OEMs looking to leverage LTE and build their business outside of China, as well as global OEMs hoping to leverage LTE growth to grow their businesses in China.For each of these customer types, our multi-mode 3G LTE modem leadership and Snapdragon solutions, combined with our global launches position us well. We have over 70 3G LTE multi-mode designs with leading Chinese OEMs based on our Snapdragon 400 chipsets for the high-volume handset tier.We believe the recently announced Snapdragon 410 with integrated LTE will also be the world's first 64-bit processor for the high-volume tier and will establish our 64-bit leadership there.On the legal front, as we previously announced in November, the Chinese National Development and Reform Commission or NDRC, notified us that it had commenced an investigation of us related to the Chinese Anti-monopoly Law. The NDRC has advised us that the substance of the investigation is confidential. We will continue to cooperate with the NDRC as it conduct its investigation.Globally, the momentum of Snapdragon-based devices continues to grow, with over 1,350 designs announced for shipping and more than 500 designs in the pipeline, including over 40 tablets. We are pleased with our design activity and anticipate good volume growth in flagship tablets, such as the new LG G Pad tablet, the Samsung Galaxy Note Pro and the Samsung Galaxy Tab Pro announced at CES.Looking ahead, our newly announced next-generation chipsets are progressing well and continue to demonstrate our leadership. Since Snapdragon to go five sets a new bar for performance and premium tablets and smartphones with end-to-end Ultra HD capability and the world's fastest mobile CPU. It is on track to ship in commercial devices in the first half of this calendar year and will help our customers take advantage of the increasing interest in Ultra HD across the entertainment and consumer electronics industries.Our new 9x35 modem delivers our fourth generation of LTE, and is on track to extend our LTE leadership into Category 6. We have already demonstrated the world's first 300 megabits per second LTE Category 6 data session on Ericsson infrastructure and we expect to see our Category 6 modem in the cards, hotspots and smartphones this year.Our overall Wi-Fi sales are strong and growing, with unit sales this quarter up 50% year-over-year and we have over 200 designs of our premium 802.11 AC solution in the pipeline. Our RF 360 family of products also continues to progress well. Our envelope tracking solution has been shipping for a number of months and is in key devices such as the Samsung Galaxy Note 3, the Google Nexus 5 and the LTE Nubia 5S.Our dynamic antenna tuner recently launched in flagship Lumia 1520 and remaining RF 360 products are on track to ship later this fiscal year as expected. In closing, we are off to a solid start in the first fiscal quarter and we see the year developing broadly in line with our previous expectations.That conclude my remarks and I would now like to turn the call over to George Davis.George DavisThank you, Steve, and good afternoon, everyone. Our first quarter results came in above expectations on solid operating performance and the positive net impact of certain discrete items. Fiscal first-quarter revenues were a record $6.6 billion, up 10% year-over-year and non-GAAP earnings per share was $1.26 above our prior guidance range.Our results this quarter included a $655 million gain or $0.25 per share related to the sale of substantially all of our Omnitracs business. We also recorded a $444 million impairment or $0.20 per share in other expenses related to the fab assets in our QMT business.The remaining items in other expenses impacted results by an additional $0.01 per share. In total, these items added a net $0.04 per share gain to results. Excluding these items, our non-GAAP EPS would be $1.22 per share or $0.07 above the midpoint of guidance and $0.02 above the high-end of our guidance range. Result in QCT and in our treasury portfolio was a major contributor to above expectation performance.In QTL, total reported device sales by our licenses were a record $61.6 billion, up 16% year-over-year and above the mid-point of our guidance range, with an average selling price of $222 at the mid-point and shipments of $278 million 3G/4G based devices at the mid-point. We saw strength in both emerging and developed regions with increased penetration of smartphones into lower tiers. Emerging regions continue to show the highest unit growth rates for 3G/4G based devices.QCT earnings before tax were above expectations with record revenues of $4.6 billion and record shipments of 213 million MSMs. Revenue per MSM was lower sequentially reflecting a higher mix of thin modems and increased MSM shipments for emerging regions. QCT operating margin was 20% in the fiscal first quarter above our prior expectations reflecting actions to manage spending in the quarter. For the company overall, non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses were below our guidance decreasing 3% sequentially primarily driven by our QCT business.Turning to capital structure. During the fiscal first quarter, we returned approximately $1.6 billion to stockholders including approximately $600 million of dividends paid and $1 billion in stock purchases. As of the end of the first fiscal quarter, we had approximately $3.8 billion remaining of the $5 billion stock repurchase authorization announced in September of last year. Cash flow from operations was very strong again this quarter at approximately $2.8 billion or 42% of revenues. Timing of shipments in Q4 and Q1 led to a higher than normal reduction in receivables which was the major factor in our above trend working capital and cash flow performance. We ended the fiscal quarter with cash and marketable securities of $31.6 billion.Now turning to our guidance for fiscal 2014. Our outlook for the fiscal year is mostly unchanged but we are increasing our earnings per share guidance to adjust for the above expectation performance in the fiscal first quarter, modestly tempered by a somewhat softer outlook in our fiscal second quarter. We expect fiscal 2014 non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $5 to $5.20, up approximately 13% year-over-year at the midpoint relative to 2013 and up $0.05 at the midpoint from our prior guidance.As it is still very early in the year we are also holding our forecast for calendar 2014 3G/4G based device shipments, however we do see some potential upside to our forecast perfectly related to LTE deployment in China. We are also holding the midpoint of our calendar 2013 3G/4G device shipment estimate, although modestly narrowing the range. As we outlined in November, we forecast improving trends in the second half of our fiscal year versus the first half. We expect higher device ASPs for QTL and a better mix of leading parts in QCT including the impact of LTE in China. We also continue to forecast favorable trends in product cost.For the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we estimate revenues to be in the range of approximately $6.1 billion to $6.7 billion, flat to up approximately 9% year-over-year. We estimate non-GAAP earnings per share in our fiscal second quarter to be approximately $1.15 to $1.25 per share, up 3% year-over-year at the midpoint. We anticipate second fiscal quarter non-GAAP combined R&D and SG&A expenses will be slightly higher, up 1% to 3% sequentially, reflecting modest growth in R&D. In QTL, we estimate total reported device sales of $66.5 billion to $72.5 billion, it will be reported by licensees in the March quarter for shipments that they made in the December quarter, up approximately 14% year-over-year at the midpoint reflecting the busy holiday season. We estimate that the QTL device ASP will be relatively flat sequentially. In QCT, we anticipate MSM shipments of approximately 180 million to 195 million units during the March quarter down 12% at the midpoint sequentially and up approximately 8% year-over-year at the midpoint. We expect revenue per MSM to be up modestly on mix quarter-over-quarter. We expect QCT operating margin to be approximately 15% in the fiscal second quarter, lower sequentially as expected, reflecting the impact of lower seasonal volumes and the effects of annual pricing resets typical for this time of the year.We continue to forecast QCT operating margins to be 18% to 20% for the full fiscal year.That concludes my comments. I will now turn the call back to Warren.Warren KneeshawThank you, George. Brent, we are ready for questions.Earnings Call Part 2:Q&A with Qualcomm Inc. CEO