LONDON, ENGLAND--(Marketwired - Jan 29, 2014) -
The Ultimate Travel Company Limited has chosen its definitive list of recommended winter destinations for 2014. The criteria used included climate, environment, culture and hand-picked luxury accommodation.1. South AfricaSouth Africa has so much to offer, with its diverse landscape and legendary wildlife. It also has some of the most luxurious accommodation in the world. The Ultimate Luxury South Africa offers travellers a sumptuous adventure, experiencing all the country has to offer. From boutique hotels to jaw dropping scenery, amazing food and an incredible wine region. South Africa is many adventures rolled into one. This flexible itinerary allows travellers to choose how they want to enjoy the best of South Africa.2. Costa RicaCosta Rica is a photographer's dream - from wildlife to landscapes, incredible beaches and even volcanoes. The Ultimate Costa Rica experience takes travellers on an adventurous, tailor-made journey of the best Costa Rica has to offer. They will get up close to volcanoes at the Rincon de la Vieja National Park and view the abundance of flora and fauna in the country's rainforests. This winter holiday spot offers an experience that makes for treasured memories.3. TanzaniaAn exciting adventure holiday awaits in Tanzania. Travellers can view incredible wildlife on the plains of the Serengeti or soak up the awe-inspiring beauty of the Ngorongoro Crater. With The Ultimate Tanzania, travellers can experience it all and more, in tailor-made luxury. This could include relaxing on one of the beautiful beaches of Zanzibar or exploring the Tarangire National Park, with its acacia forests and savannah, perfect for stunning views of the landscape or the diverse wildlife.4. OmanOman is an undiscovered jewel in winter luxury travel destinations. This Middle Eastern gem offers visitors breath-taking mountains as well as gorgeous beaches in a temperate climate, with our winter being the best time to visit. The warm, friendly people of Oman welcome visitors, allowing them a glimpse into their culture and way of life. The Oman Explorer itinerary is a favourite among Ultimate Travel's clients as they get to experience the historical towns, stunning scenery and some wonderful beaches.5. GuatemalaThe Ultimate Travel Company's Highlights of Guatemala suits those looking to experience the unusually rich Guatemalan culture without foregoing the luxury they are looking for. Whether the itinerary involves a guided tour of Mayan ruins or exploring the country's lush rainforests with their exotic birds and animals, the beautiful landscapes and tropical climate make this a favourite winter travel spot.Bookings for these fabulous travel options just keep rolling in, with more and more clients booking these luxury destinations with The Ultimate Travel Company every day.