MUNICH, GERMANY and PARIS and TURIN, ITALY--(Marketwired - Jun 16, 2013) -
Call For a European MALE Program EADS Cassidian, Dassault Aviation and Finmeccanica Alenia Aermacchi, having a common view on the current situation in Europe regarding MALE drones, call for the launch of a European MALE program.Such a joint program would support the capability needs of European armed forces while optimizing the difficult budgetary situation through pooling of research and development funding.With a new development, critical requirements around the certification of drones, allowing their safe passage and operation in European air space, would inherently be built into the program from the onset.European sovereignty and independence in the management of information and intelligence would be guaranteed while at the same time delivering a robust system resilient against cyber attacks.The program would be orientated to foster the development of high technologies and contribute to sustaining key competencies and jobs within Europe.EADS Cassidian, Dassault Aviation and Finmeccanica Alenia Aermacchi declare their readiness to coordinate on such a program supporting the security needs of our European governments and armed forces.Alenia Aermacchi, a Finmeccanica company, has a role of primary importance in the world's civil and defence aeronautical industry, counts a total workforce of ca. 11,000 people and operates in the design, development, production and integrated support of commercial and military aircraft, trainers, unmanned aerial vehicles and aerostructures. In 2012 it reported revenues of EUR 2.97 billions, orders of EUR 3.2 billions and a backlog of EUR 8.8 billions. www.aleniaaermacchi.it, Twitter: @AleniaAermacchi. Cassidian, the defence division of EADS, is a worldwide leader in defence and security solutions. The company delivers advanced defence systems along the whole action chain from sensors through command & control systems to combat aircraft and unmanned air systems. In the area of security, Cassidian provides customers worldwide with border surveillance systems, cyber security solutions and secure communications. In 2012, Cassidian - with around 23,000 employees - achieved revenues of EUR 5.7 billion. www.cassidian.comDassault Aviation : With more than 8,000 military and civil aircraft delivered to 83 countries over the past 60 years, and having logged nearly 28 million flight hours to date, Dassault Aviation can offer recognized know how and experience in the design, development, sale and support of all types of aircraft, from the Rafale fighter to the Falcon range of high end business jets. In 2012, Dassault Aviation reported revenues of EUR 3.94 billion, with around 11,600 employees. www.dassault-aviation.com - Twitter : @Dassault_OnAirCall For a European MALE Program:http://hugin.info/143388/R/1709682/566676.pdfThis announcement is distributed by Thomson Reuters on behalf of Thomson Reuters clients. The owner of this announcement warrants that:(i) the releases contained herein are protected by copyright and other applicable laws; and(ii) they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and originality of the information contained therein.Source: Dassault Aviation via Thomson Reuters ONE[HUG#1709682]