Medical Practices A partner at Gettry Marcus CPA, P.C., a leading accounting, tax, consulting and business valuation firm, reveals reasons why hospitals that are pursuing the acquisition of small medical practices should perform due diligenceWOODBURY, NY / www.myprgenie.com / ACCESSWIRE / May 03, 2014 / Stuart Kertzner, CPA/ABV, CVA, Partner-in-Charge of the Gettry Marcus Health Care Group, was recently published in Healthcare Finance News, where he discussed the importance of due diligence for hospitals looking to acquire small practices. According to Kertzner, there is a growing trend of hospitals that are pursuing the acquisition of small medical practices.He writes in the article, "Once a hospital and a small practice have completed preliminary discussions, and a decision to pursue a transaction has been made, the due diligence process begins. The hospital will need to analyze several different aspects of the practice before it can determine if a deal should be made, and if a deal is to be made, how it should be structured. The methodology of the transaction could, in part, be dependent on the results of the due diligence performed."To view the full article, visit the Gettry Marcus website. IRS Circular 230 Disclosure: To ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that any U.S. federal tax advice contained in this communication (including any attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of (i) avoiding penalties under the Internal Revenue Code or (ii) promoting, marketing or recommending to another party any transaction or matter addressed herein.Gettry Marcus CPA, P.C. is a top New York City and Long Island CPA firm with offices in Woodbury, Long Island and New York City. We provide accounting, tax, and consulting services to commercial businesses, high net worth individuals and various industries which include real estate and health care. We have one of the premier and most credentialed business valuation, litigation and forensic accounting groups in the New York Area. Our experience in diverse industries and a highly talented and experienced professional staff gives us the ability to share valuable insights into our clients' businesses, to better understand their goals and problems and to help them attain the vision they have for their company.Gettry Marcus is "Always Looking Deeper" to build value for our clients.Media inquiries: Contact Fayellen Dietchweiler at 516-364-3390 ext. 225 or at fdietchweiler(at)gettrymarcus(dot)comContact: Scott Darrohn, Takara@fishbat.com, 516-364-3390SOURCE: Gettry Marcus Health Care Group