LAS VEGAS, NV--(Marketwired - Mar 10, 2014) - Holiday Systems International (HSI) has been honored for the second consecutive year with recognition as the Best Business Product for its Custom Solutions. The announcement took place at the Perspective Magazine Awards during the 4th annual Global Networking Expo held at the Ritz Carlton in Sarasota, Florida.Holiday Systems International's Custom Solutions have emerged as exceptional business products for their advanced technology, custom integration, aggregation of specialized leisure travel benefits and exclusive Timeshare services. HSI's Custom Solutions evolve its partner's business by adding options that include lead generation, occupancy and distribution solutions, a proprietary Timeshare credit conversion system, VIP Vacation Exchange Benefits, loyalty reward systems, sales support, and services offered in 7 languages. Partners also benefit from dynamic configurations of presentation, aggregation of travel options exceeding even the largest of providers and a comprehensive yet user-friendly administration system that provides affiliates with full visibility into ongoing member behavior and activity.Craig Morganson, CEO of Holiday Systems International, commented on why his Custom Solutions received this award: "What separates us from other companies is the diversity of our infrastructure, our generosity and our unique ability to customize for our partners. Our partners can select from an impressive array of benefits that are properly aligned with consumer spending behaviors. We are very excited to have received this award and the industry's recognition for the second year and are looking forward to another incredible year."As a leader in innovation, technology and specialized private-client benefits, HSI is years ahead of other companies. HSI's infrastructure is vast and proven, with a culture of generosity, ethics and partner loyalty. A partnership with HSI means many years of positive growth through an arsenal of scalable and sustainable products and services.For additional information about Holiday Systems International please visit sales.holidaysystems.com.About Holiday Systems International (HSI)HSI was founded in 1993 by still President and CEO, Craig Morganson. Mr. Craig Morganson is a leader in the travel & tourism industry and manages HSI with a firm commitment to consumer value and customer service. HSI has a long history of providing sophisticated technology, exclusive products/service and generous value to its private clientele.