LONDON and SAN FRANCISCO, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - Advent Software, Inc. (
NASDAQ :
ADVS ), a leading provider of software and services for the global investment management industry, today announced that it has been awarded 'Best Research Management Tool' at the 2013 Systems in the City Awards, hosted by industry consultants -- Goodacre -- in London. The annual industry award, now in its fifteenth year, was presented to Advent for its industry leading research management system -- Tamale RMS®.Stephen Pinner, Managing Director, Goodacre UK said, "Advent is to be congratulated on the success of Tamale®. The apparent benefits to portfolio managers, compliance personnel and client relationships should make this product one for the short list for firms looking for an effective research management system."Tamale RMS® brings automation and efficiency to the investment process. Through the system's simple and intuitive design, asset management firms, hedge funds, funds of funds, foundations, endowments, and private-equity firms can easily streamline the research process and improve the decision-making process."We're very pleased to be recognized with this award as it highlights the growing need for firms to focus on the conduct of their business, where the front office workflow and research process are vital. Tamale® can help firms by providing an automated, controlled, and auditable investment process to manage the vast amounts of critical information," said Håkan Valberg, President EMEA, Advent Software. "We are seeing an increased demand across the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region from firms acknowledging the need for industry best practices in the research and knowledge management area, especially within large institutional firms."This award, which recognizes systems suppliers within the financial services industry, is the latest in a series of industry recognitions for Advent in 2013. Advent has also been recognized this year for the following: Best Fund Accounting and Reporting Software Provider and Best Portfolio Management Software Provider, MENA Fund Manager Fund Services Awards; Technology Vendor of the Year, Citywealth Magazine; Best Technology Provider, HFMWeek; and Leading Portfolio Management System, Hedge Fund Journal.About Advent Advent Software, Inc. (www.advent.com), a global firm, has provided trusted solutions to the world's financial professionals since 1983. Advent's proven solutions can increase operational efficiency, reduce risk, and eliminate the boundaries between systems, information and people so you can focus on what you do best. With more than 4,500 client firms in over 60 countries, Advent has established itself as a leading provider of mission-critical solutions to meet the demands of investment management operations around the world. Advent is the only financial services software company to be awarded the Service Capability and Performance certification for being a world-class support and services organization. For more information on Advent products visit http://www.advent.com/about/resources/demos/pr.About Tamale RMS® Tamale RMS®, the market's leading research management system, centralizes a firm's research and enables investment professionals to spend less time searching for information and more time capitalizing on their ideas. Tamale RMS® brings efficiency and organization to a firm's research and compliance processes and can be tailored to the varying workflows of each firm to maximize ease of use and adoption. Tamale RMS® is used by thousands of investment professionals around the world and can be accessed anytime, anywhere -- from the desktop or on the road. For more information on Tamale RMS®, visit http://www.advent.com/tamale.Advent, the Advent logo, Advent Software, and Tamale RMS are registered trademarks of Advent Software, Inc. All other company names or marks mentioned herein are those of their respective owners.