Available for both iOS and Android users, Shoebox by Ancestry.com enables a smartphone to become an advanced image scanner featuring easy integration with Ancestry.com. This integration brings valuable paper photos stored in albums, attics and shoeboxes to life, making the preservation of family history easier than ever before. Click here for high-resolution versionMorePROVO, UT--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - Ancestry.com, the world's largest online family history resource, has released an updated version of its popular Shoebox mobile app. Available for both iOS and Android users, Shoebox by Ancestry.com enables a smartphone to become an advanced image scanner featuring easy integration with Ancestry.com. This integration brings valuable paper photos stored in albums, attics and shoeboxes to life, making the preservation of family history easier than ever before.This new update of the Shoebox app is the most significant yet. The streamlined user interface makes scanning photographs fast, fun and easy. When used alongside the new integration with Ancestry.com, users can scan, upload and tag these photos to their family trees. "By turning your smartphone into a high-resolution scanner that works seamlessly with Ancestry.com, we are giving users the chance to share precious family photos on their family trees," said Eric Shoup, Executive Vice President of Product at Ancestry.com. "This in turn, creates an amazing discovery experience for distant cousins or member of the existing Shoebox community."Since 2012, when Ancestry.com purchased 1000memories, maker of the Shoebox app, development has focused on integration with the Ancestry.com site to create the most user-friendly, engaging family history experience available for both Shoebox and Ancestry.com users. This most recent update launches the Shoebox incorporation with Ancestry.com and delivers an instantly richer experience for both new and current users alike. This especially benefits 60,000 of the most active Shoebox users who are also currently preserving their family history as Ancestry.com subscribers.Features:Advanced image scanner that can crop and auto-flatten images to ensure the correct perspective, instead of laboring through a manual scanning project One login for both Shoebox and Ancestry.com accounts A more intuitive, direct uploading experience to Ancestry.com family trees Photo tagging, including dates and location, as well as a field to create a custom captionTechnical Specifications:Compatible with iOS 6+ and Android 2.3+ Supports all Android devices with a back camera Supports iPhone 3GS+ The Ancestry Shoebox app can be downloaded in the iTunes App Store and Google play. Just like building a tree on Ancestry.com, the app is free. For more information about Shoebox by Ancestry.com, please visit shoebox.ancestry.comAbout Ancestry.com: Ancestry.com is the world's largest online family history resource with approximately 2.7 million paying subscribers across all its websites. More than 11 billion records have been added to the Ancestry.com sites and users have created more than 50 million family trees containing more than 5 billion profiles. In addition to its flagship site www.ancestry.com, the company operates several Ancestry international websites along with a suite of online family history brands including Archives.com, Fold3.com and Newspapers.com, all designed to empower people to discover, preserve and share their family history.Forward Looking Statements: This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include our ability to acquire subscribers, to provide new tools that may or may not drive retention and new subscribers, to provide desired content and product features to our subscribers and to otherwise satisfy customer expectations. Information concerning additional factors that could cause events or results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements is contained under the caption "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report, and in discussions in other of our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing our views as of any subsequent date and we assume no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements.