Beamz Interactive, Inc. Featured Prominently in New Flo Rida Music Video "Tell Me When You Ready" Click here for high-resolution versionMoreSCOTTSDALE, AZ--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - Beamz Interactive, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BZIC ), an emerging growth technology company specializing in state-of-the-art interactive music products, is pleased to announce that it was featured prominently in the new music video "Tell Me When You Ready" by world renowned, multi-platinum hip-hop artist Flo Rida.Filmed in Las Vegas, the new Flo Rida music video showcases the "Beamz by Flo" product in various scenes of the three minute production. The video starts with a close up of the company's new "Beamz by Flo" product and displays the text "Beamz Presents" before the video begins. The single is the first of Flo Rida's fifth album, which is expected to generate a number of summer hits. The music video has already reached 100,000 views on YouTube and counting."To be featured in major international music video by Flo Rida is a significant win for Beamz and our shareholders," said Charlie Mollo, President and CEO of Beamz Interactive. "We are thrilled with how the video turned out and it's great seeing Flo Rida proactively supporting our new product line with his star power. As he leverages his online following of 14 million fans on Facebook and 3 million followers on Twitter, we believe Flo Rida will help encourage a new generation of music enthusiasts to create their own interactive tracks. We look forward to informing the world about our game changing interactive music products as we get closer to the next stage of our product launch."Flo Rida's new music video "Tell Me When You Ready" featuring rap star Future can be viewed here: http://thebeamz.com/investors/video/Based on the company's milestone endorsement and licensing deal announced in June 2013, Flo Rida is actively promoting the "Beamz by Flo" product line through online videos and his significant fan base on social media channels. Flo Rida was recently named a Billboard Top 100 Artist for 2012 and is the best-selling digital hip-hop artist in the world, with more than 75 million combined singles sold worldwide and over 600 million video views on YouTube.In addition to the "Tell Me When You Ready" music video, Beamz Interactive and Flo Rida are also filming a variety of commercials and online teaser videos featuring Flo Rida with the Beamz. These product-centric marketing pieces are designed to drive potential customers to the "Beamz by Flo" website for in-depth product info and additional content as it becomes available. Commercials will begin airing selectively on TV and the internet in the later part of the third quarter, followed by a full rollout in the fall of 2013.About Beamz Interactive, Inc.Based in Scottsdale, AZ, Beamz Interactive, Inc. (
OTCQB :
BZIC ) has created state-of-the-art interactive laser controller technology that can be used to develop new market opportunities in a wide variety of music, education, healthcare, gaming and consumer applications. In its first application, the Company developed an innovative new music technology and product offering that brings music to literally everyone in a way that was previously not possible. Beamz allows people that have no musical background or training to play and enjoy music within minutes, yet it has the depth to enable accomplished DJs, artists and musicians to perform, compose and create highly sophisticated interactive music. Beamz Interactive's technology portfolio includes multiple patents, patents pending and trade secrets covering interactive music, software, laser-based controllers, gaming applications and related designs and devices. For more information on Beamz, please visit: www.thebeamz.com.Follow Beamz on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.For comprehensive investor relations material, including fact sheets, multimedia resources, and videos regarding Beamz, please follow the appropriate link: Investor Portal, Beamz Product Video, and Investor Fact Sheet.Forward-Looking StatementsThis press release may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the Company's current expectations and projections about future results, performance, prospects and opportunities. These forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to the Company and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including those discussed in the Company's periodic reports that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on its website (www.sec.gov). All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these factors. Other than as required by law, the Company assumes no obligation to update publicly or to revise these forward-looking statements.