LOS ANGELES, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - Drinks Americas Holdings, LTD. (
PINKSHEETS :
DKAM ), leading developer and marketer of alcoholic beverages, announced today:Drinks Americas Reports Massive Success With Day Of The Dead BeersDay of the Dead Beers has sold well upon initial launch, shipping over 12,000 cases in the first 30 days. The Creative Team at DKAM was consulted on marketing for the brand during development stages. Tim Owens, CEO of DKAM, has also given direction on marketing and is in talks to put national tastings programs in place."The great taste of the beers has generated the repeat sales needed to grow and gain consumer loyalty," stated Owens. "A national tasting program with brand ambassadors will get the product into consumers' hands and help the brand grow on a national level."DKAM through its brokerage agreement for the sale of Rio Bravo Beers, Crazy Pig Mexican Ale, Mexicali Beers and Chili Devil Beer is preparing to go to market following the success of Day of the Dead Beers.About Drinks AmericasDrinks Americas develops, markets and nationally distributes fine imported beers. In April 2013, the Company entered into a National Brokerage agreement with Worldwide Beverage Imports, LLC and is now brokering Rio Bravo Beers, Crazy Pig Mexican Ale, Mexicali Beers and Chili Devil Beer. Drinks Americas works to connect innovative brand owners, marketers, and private equity firms to facilitate significant revenue growth through identifying market opportunities. With our new consulting division, we will help forge national and global strategic partnerships.Safe HarborExcept for the historical information contained herein, the matters set forth in this release, including the description of the company and its product offerings, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially, including the historical volatility and low trading volume of our stock, the risk and uncertainties inherent in the early stages of growth companies, the company's need to raise substantial additional capital to proceed with its business, risks associated with competitors, and other risks detailed from time to time in the company's most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. The company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.