COLCHESTER, UNITED KINGDOM--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - First Advantage, a Symphony Technology Group (STG) company, recently launched its new brand identity at the HR industry's largest annual conference, SHRM 2013. Through the combination of its new logo and website, First Advantage is establishing its brand as the global leader in identity and trust information solutions. The new brand platform aligns with First Advantage's commitment to be the first to deliver the intuitive and easy-to-use solutions expected by clients and candidates alike. These solutions touch 16 million people each year and are delivered by more than 4,000 associates in 26 offices around the world.The new brand communicates First Advantage's substantial market leading position, which has grown significantly through the recent acquisition of LexisNexis' screening solutions. The logo -- a stylized globe spinning on its axis -- has a crisp, contemporary look that underscores First Advantage's goal to drive innovation in the screening market. This clean and user-friendly approach extends to the new website, structured around client solutions. Accessible at www.fadv.com, First Advantage's new website takes a similar approach to the new user experience with simple navigation, meaningful online resources and easily consumable content.Mark Parise, CEO of First Advantage, said, "Employers and enterprises often struggle to identify and select the right people who will prove to be trusted employees or renters. First Advantage gives them the insight they need to make well-informed decisions faster." He continued, "With our new company brand, we are positioned to highlight the range of our extensive screening capabilities and show the value they bring to our clients globally."About First AdvantageFirst Advantage provides comprehensive screening, identity and information solutions that give employers and housing providers access to actionable information that results in faster, more accurate people decisions. With an advanced global technology platform and superior customer service delivered by experts who understand local markets, First Advantage helps customers around the world build fully scalable, configurable screening programs that meet their unique needs. Headquartered in Alpharetta, Ga., First Advantage has offices throughout North America, Europe and Asia. More information about First Advantage can be accessed at www.fadv.com.About Symphony Technology GroupSymphony Technology Group (STG) is a strategic private equity firm with the mission of investing in and being a partner in building great software and services companies. In addition to capital, STG provides transformation expertise to enable its portfolio companies to deliver more value to clients to retain and attract the best talent and to achieve best-in-class business performance. All STG portfolio companies are expected to grow through innovation. STG's current portfolio consists of 12 global companies with combined revenue of approximately $2.5 billion and thousands of employees spread across North America, Europe and Asia. For more information, please visit www.symphonytg.com.