SUNNYVALE, CA--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - Juniper Networks (
NYSE :
JNPR ), the industry leader in network innovation, today announced that Telefónica Spain has deployed a modernized, optimized wireline IP broadband access platform using Juniper Networks® MX Series 3D Universal Edge Routers. The project, known as Telefónica's "Next Generation Access Center" and built around a fiber optic deployment, will provide high-speed residential and business services throughout Spain. The new network enables Telefónica to build its broadband business around differentiated high-performance services that attract and retain customers in a competitive marketplace.News HighlightsTelefónica Spain's new fiber-based broadband offering is a key element of its Internet access service. Juniper's technology underpins the service by delivering a reliable, high-speed network infrastructure that can handle mixed traffic efficiently.
The Juniper Networks MX960 3D Universal Edge Routers were chosen for their flexible architecture and rich feature set which enable optimized functionality of Telefónica Spain's network edge.
Telefónica Spain selected the MX Series platform for its scalability across large numbers of subscribers, each with increasing bandwidth demand and for its technology evolution potential.
Supporting QuoteJuniper Networks "This deployment is a great example of how service providers are using Juniper's innovative technology to achieve network optimization and deliver new revenue-generating services. The MX960 enables Telefónica Spain to increase the value of its broadband deployments and maximize average revenue per user, while its subscribers enjoy a superior service." - Mike Marcellin, senior vice president, strategy and marketing, Platform Systems Division, Juniper NetworksAdditional Resources:Juniper.Net Community: www.juniper.net/community Juniper on Twitter: https://twitter.com/Junipernetworks Juniper on Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/JuniperNetworksAbout Juniper Networks Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that transform the experience and economics of networking. Additional information can be found at Juniper Networks (www.juniper.net) or connect with Juniper on Twitter and Facebook.Juniper Networks and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. The Juniper Networks and Junos logos are trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.