BANGALORE, INDIA--(Marketwired - Jul 14, 2013) - Meru Networks (
NASDAQ :
MERU ), a leader in Wi-Fi networking, has appointed longtime technology market veteran Kishore Reddy as vice president and managing director for India. Reddy, who is based in Bangalore, previously served in senior executive positions at TPVision, Trident Microsystems, NXP Semiconductors, V Labs India and Philips Electronics."I am very pleased to join Meru at this phase in its development, and look forward to leading its operations in India," said Reddy. "The company is in an exciting phase in its development and its Bangalore site plays a key role in positioning the company moving forward."Reddy has 20 years of engineering and engineering management experience in the semiconductor, consumer electronics and test and measurement instrument industries. He most recently served as vice president and managing director of TPVision India Private Limited, a $3.7 billion company developed as a joint venture between TPV Electronics and Royal Philips."I am extremely pleased to welcome Kishore to the company to lead our efforts in India. He is a strong addition to our executive leadership team," said Dr. Bami Bastani, president and CEO of Meru. "Meru has added a number of experienced executives to the roster in recent weeks, including Brian McDonald as chief financial officer, Mark Liu as general counsel and Jeffrey Sage as vice president of sales for the Asia Pacific region."About Meru NetworksMeru Networks (
NASDAQ :
MERU ) is a market leader in the development of mobile access and virtualized Wi-Fi solutions. Meru's MobileFLEX wireless architecture addresses the ever-growing need for higher bandwidth and higher client densities. The Meru Identity Manager solution greatly simplifies secure device onboarding and the company's unique Context-aware Application Layers enable dedicated channel assignments for specific applications, devices and usage scenarios. Meru customers include Fortune 500 businesses as well as leaders in education, healthcare and hospitality. Founded in 2002, Meru is headquartered in Sunnyvale, Calif., with operations in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia Pacific and Japan. Visit www.merunetworks.com or call (408) 215-5300 for more information.Meru is a registered trademark. The Meru logo is a trademark of Meru Networks, Inc. in the United States. All other trademarks mentioned in this document are the property of their respective owners.