MIAMI BEACH, FL--(Marketwired - July 15, 2013) -
In its inaugural recruiting season, SugarTime, Inc. adds five young basketball players to the agency's stable of clients. CEO David Sugarman, who is both a NBPA and FIBA Certified Player Agent, set the goal of signing athletes for the 2013-14 season despite receiving his certification in November 2012."I knew it would be a challenge to compete against the larger and more-established agencies, but I think we have a good product and are able to connect with the players," said Sugarman. "It is important to me that we educate our clients and help them create a plan for their future: personally, professionally and financially."Athletes now part of SugarTime, Inc. include:AJ Walton (23 yrs.) - Guard, 6'1", 184 lbs., Baylor University - Little Rock native, Walton is second all-time in Baylor school history for steals. He started every game for the Bears during the 2012-13 season and is described as a strong on-the-ball defender.D'Aundray Brown (25 yrs.) - Guard, 6'4", 195 lbs., Cleveland State University, Canton Charge (D-League) - Youngstown native, Brown is a versatile player capable of playing both shooting guard and small forward. Before breaking into the NBA D-League, he was named to the Horizon League All-Defensive Team for the 2011-12 season.Greg Gantt (22 yrs.) - Guard, 6'2", 205 lbs., Florida Atlantic University - Gainesville native, Gantt is FAU's all-time leading scorer and was first-team All-Sun Belt Conference for the 2012-13 season. He led the Conference in scoring with 21.16 points per game.J'mison Morgan (24 yrs.) - Center, 6'11", 255 lbs., Baylor University - Dallas native, Morgan started his career at UCLA before transferring to Baylor University. Nicknamed "Bobo," he is known as a quality shot-blocker, good on defense and strong both offensively and defensively in the paint.Kwamain Mitchell (24 yrs.) - Guard, 5'10", 175 lbs., St. Louis University - Little Rock native, Mitchell is a combo guard capable of playing both point and shooting guard. His team made the NCAA Tournament the last two seasons. Mitchell is known for hitting clutch shots in key games and was part of legendary coach Rick Majerus' first recruiting class at St. Louis."Every successful business has to grow and adding the agency element to our existing management offerings was a big step," said Sugarman. "I am proud of the team I have in place and our recruiting efforts for the first year. Now we are working hard to represent these athletes and get them the best possible contract we can."The SugarTime Team travels to Nevada in mid-July for the 2013 Las Vegas Combine and NBA Summer League. Walton, Morgan and Mitchell are playing in the combine with the hopes of earning their place on an international team. They join two of SugarTime's previous management/agency clients Jae Crowder (Dallas Mavericks) and Jerome Dyson (Israel; Hapoel Holon) who are in Las Vegas for the NBA Summer League.SugarTime, Inc. was established by David Sugarman, one of the premier financial-industry innovators, in October 2010. SugarTime, Inc. is the parent company for SugarTime The Sports Agency LLC and SugarTime Sports Management LLC. Sugarman, who as of November 2012 is both a NBPA Certified and a FIBA Certified Player Agent, added agency services to the list of services provided to clients.SugarTime Sports Management Firm offers its clients introductions to financial planners, plus services to include: branding, real estate services, relocation, transportation and more. All aspects of The Agency and The Firm support the long-term financial goals of its clients.- SUGARTIMEINC.COM -