FORT LAUDERDALE, FL--(Marketwired - Jul 15, 2013) - A cadre of notable South Florida chefs will put their best food forward at this year's Chefs Up Front dinner, an annual fundraising event hosted by local non-profit Florida Introduces Physical Activity and Nutrition To Youth. Chefs Up Front offers a rare and coveted dining opportunity for guests at 10 different tables to experience a delicious five-course signature meal prepared and presented tableside by 10 local chefs. FLIPANY has expanded the popular event this year to include both The Biltmore in Miami/Coral Gables on August 9 and W Fort Lauderdale on August 23. Roxanne Vargas, host of NBC6's Six in the Mix, will serve as emcee at The Biltmore. Ryan Phillips, morning meteorologist at the station, will emcee at the W Fort Lauderdale. In addition to the intimate dinner setting, each evening will feature a reception and silent auction.Chefs Up Front benefits Cooking Matters™, a program that teaches children and their families how to make healthy food choices, cook healthy meals and shop for nutritious foods on a budget. FLIPANY is the only agency providing the program in South Florida and the lead partner in the state of Share our Strength, the national organization that designed Cooking Matters™ as part of its No Kid Hungry campaign to end childhood hunger in America. All money raised from Chefs Up Front goes directly to supporting Cooking Matters™ for schoolchildren and their families in Broward, Miami-Dade and Palm Beach County."Chefs always tell us they love this event because they get to truly share and display their passion for great food," said Lynne Kunins, president and chief executive officer of FLIPANY. "Guests love the event because it is an intimate affair with amazing chefs that benefits a wonderful cause -- helping families connect the importance of making healthy food choices with the ability to shop for and prepare nutritious meals on a budget."Chef Carlos Jorge, FLIPANY's chef liaison for both events, returns to host at W Fort Lauderdale. Chef Gregory Pugin, new French chef at The Biltmore, will host at that location. Chefs that have graciously lent their time and culinary talent to these unique events include the following: The Biltmore - Chef Gregory Pugin of Palme d'Or and the hotel's banquet chef, Chef Scott Downs; Chef Phil Bryant, Swine Southern Table and Bar (owned and operated by 50eggs); Chef Adrianne Calvo, Chef Adrianne's Vineyard Restaurant and Wine Bar; Chef Nuno Grullon, Iron Side Café; Chef Cindy Hutson, Ortanique on the Mile; Chef Makoto Okuwa, Makoto; and Chef Jason Smith, Steak 954.W Fort Lauderdale chefs include the hotel's own Chef Carlos Jorge and Steak 954 Chef Jason Smith; Chef Stanton Bundy, Royal Pig Pub and Kitchen; Chef Jeremy Ford, 3030 Ocean; and Chef Marc Gruverman, The Capital Grille. For bios and photos of the chef line-up, visit the event chef page. Additional chefs will be announced soon.On August 9, Chefs Up Front at The Biltmore begins at 6:00 p.m. with a silent auction and reception. The dinner and program start at 7:00 p.m. On August 23, the silent auction and reception at W Fort Lauderdale start at 5:30 p.m., followed by the dinner and program at 7:00 p.m. Sponsorship opportunities are still available. For more details, please visit our sponsorship page. Individual tickets are $150 per person and may be purchased at the event website.Current sponsors of Chefs Up Front include the following: The Biltmore, Gables Capital Management, Humana, Memorial Healthcare System, Miami Associates in Pediatric Surgery, Toshiba Business Solutions, and W Fort Lauderdale.FLIPANY empowers youth and adults through nutrition and fitness programs while raising awareness and creating policy changes for healthier, more food-secure communities. FLIPANY has been instrumental in helping the community recognize the importance of their health, how to make healthy lifestyle choices, and the critical role nutrition and physical activity plays in the health and development of children and adults. To-date, FLIPANY nutrition and fitness professionals have educated more than 30,000 participants, worked with more than 500 volunteers and partnered with more than 60 community agencies to combat childhood hunger and obesity. www.flipany.org; @FLIPANY; FLIPANY on Facebook