MANILA, PHILIPPINES--(Marketwired - Jul 14, 2013) - VuQo Inc., makers of VuQo Premium Vodka, the world's first premium vodka distilled from coconut nectar, announced today that they have recently expanded their agreement with Playboy Enterprises for Playboy Spirits.Earlier this year, the Philippines-based company signed a licensing agreement with Playboy Enterprises to produce and distribute Playboy Vodka in Asia Pacific.The new deal now covers a super-premium line of spirits that includes vodka, tequila, and gin; which will all be available globally. Playboy Vodka and Playboy Tequila are set to be launched later in 2013, while Playboy Gin will be available worldwide next year."The Playboy brand enjoys 97% unaided global brand awareness and has been an iconic lifestyle brand for nearly 60 years. We are thrilled to have this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to partner with Playboy in the development of their global spirits," says VuQo Inc. Founder and CEO Rich Cabael.Playboy Spirits is a reflection of the brand's authentic connection to luxury, indulgence, and nightlife. Playboy's current portfolio exudes everything a lifestyle brand demands, therefore making Playboy Spirits a natural addition to the brand name."From the premium spirits featured in Playboy Magazine to the nightlife and parties the brand is famous for, Playboy is excited to enter this category with a best-in-class partner," said Matt Nordby of Playboy Enterprises. "We are confident Playboy's brand power combined with VuQo's superior product production will create exciting opportunities for global distribution partners and ultimately, consumers and retail partners."This development puts the two companies on the map as significant players in the global spirits industry.Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed.Company LogoVuQo Inc. http://release.media-outreach.com/release.php/Images/919Playboy Enterprises, Inc.  http://release.media-outreach.com/release.php/Images/1083 About VuQo Inc. VuQo Inc. was founded in 2005 with a mission to create innovative, high-quality Philippines-made wines and spirits. Its flagship brand is VuQo Premium Vodka, the world's first and only vodka distilled from coconut and made in the Philippines. The company also owns Haliya Light Fruit Wines, premium wines handcrafted from locally-grown fruits. Both brands are exported to the US and sold at Duty Free Philippines.About Playboy Enterprises, Inc. Playboy is one of the most recognized and popular consumer brands in the world. Playboy Enterprises, Inc. is a media and lifestyle company that markets the brand through a wide range of media properties and licensing initiatives. The company publishes Playboy magazine in the United States and abroad, and creates content for distribution via television networks, websites, mobile platforms and radio. Through licensing agreements, the Playboy brand appears on a wide range of consumer products in more than 150 countries, as well as retail stores and entertainment venues. For more information, please visit: www.PlayboyEnterprises.com.