By Steven Ralston, CFA
Dejour Energy (NYSE MKT:DEJ) continues to develop its prime properties: Woodrush in British Columbia’s Peace River Arch, the Kokopelli project in Colorado’s Piceance Basin and the South Rangely unitized leasehold situated on the western side of the Douglas Creek Arch. Management is currently re-evaluating the potential of theNiobrara/Mancos play in Garfield County, Colorado and may re-prioritize its capital expenditure program to focus on the development of this shale gas play in the West Grand Valley area.
At Woodrush, Dejour operates eight producing wells (three oil and six gas). Production from the third oil production well (AB-1-I), drilled in late 2011, is continuing to improve after remedial work completed last year. Gross oil equivalent (includes gas) production at Woodrush averaged 500 BOEPD (barrels of oil equivalent per day) in February, 540 BOEPD in March and so far 613 BOEPD in April. Results indicate a significant rate of progress toward management’s expectation of achieving production of 700 BOEPD sometime in 2013 at Woodrush.
At the Kokopelli project in Colorado, the first well was drilled and cased in the third quarter of 2012. Since closing a financing arrangement from a drilling fund in January, the development of three additional wells from the same drilling pad at Kokopelli has progressed steadily.  All four wells are expected to be fracture stimulated and completed by June 30th.
At South Rangely, production has increased from the restricted rate of 250 MCFPD to 400 MCFPD currently. Drilled and completed in late 2011, the vertical 3,863-foot test well (Federal 36-24A) is producing from the Lower Mancos C sands. The next phase entails horizontal development to explore for oil in a down dip extension of the Niobrara formation. By virtue of the production, the 6,300-acre unitized leasehold is held-by-production.
A surprisingly successful discovery well by WPX Energy in Garfield County is generating considerable excitement about the potential of the Niobrara/Mancos shale play in this area of the Piceance Basin. Management of WPX believes the Estimated Ultimate Recovery (EUR) of the well is in the range of 7-to-10 BCF with the well having produced over 1 BCF of natural gas less than four months of operation. The WPX Energy well is situated directly between Dejour’s Roan Creek and Kokopelli properties.
Our rating on Dejour’s stock is Neutral with a price target of $0.50 per share. We look forward to production from Kokopelli being a catalyst to better value Dejour’s reserves and to determine the IRR of the company’s development programs.
A copy of the full research report can be downloaded here >> Dejour Energy Report
Please visit SCR.Zacks.com for additional information on our research and coverage universe, and Subscribe to receive our articles and reports emailed directly to you each morning.