For Immediate ReleaseChicago, IL – April 26, 2013 – Zacks Equity Research highlights Overstock.com (OSTK) as the Bull of the Day and Titan Machinery (TITN) as the Bear of the Day. In addition, Zacks Equity Research provides analysis on Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (ACOR), Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) and Novartis AG (NVS).Full analysis of all these stocks is available at http://at.zacks.com/?id=2678.Here is a synopsis of all five stocks:Bull of the Day: If you like the online discount retailers that sell just about everything, but don’t like the price, multiple or slowing growth of a stock like Amazon (a Zacks Rank #3, who reporting in-line earnings yesterday), then Overstock.com (OSTK) with a Zacks Rank of 1 and four earnings beats in a row might be worth a look.Like Amazon, Overstock sells a plethora of products from electronics and jewelry to furniture and handmade items from global artisans; they even sell cars (I personally like their doomsday prepper section).While they don’t sell music or have an app store or tablet like some of their competitors; their pricing, product selectionand customer service are top notch and the company has been delivering solid earnings growth; sometimes the K.I.S.S. method works best.One of the great things about this time of year is that we get the ability to take a detailed peak into how companies are functioning and performing. It’s like having your car recently inspected by a savvy mechanic, giving you a little more piece of mind as you drive.On April 18th, Overstock.com reported Q1 results that beat the Zacks Consensus Estimates by a whopping 138.5%. Total net revenue for Q1 2013 and 2012 was $312.0 million and $262.4 million, respectively, a 19% increase. They attributed the growth in net revenue primarily to a 21% increase in average order size, partially offset by a small decrease in the number of customer orders.Bear of the Day:It’s often said that logic can lead you down the right path in life. When the right choice seems to be right there in front of you, it’s hard to take another path.Shares of Titan Machinery (TITN) recently dropped from $32 to $22 after the company reported and are now looking attractive to some investors (perhaps a logical choice), but I wanted to check that logic and make sure that we are all on the same page.My colleague wrote about Titan just a week or so ago and did an great jobs at offering the facts. My goal is to address some of the nuances and psychology that goes into buying stocks on weakness and why it might not always be the best thing to do (even if it seems like a great deal).Tracey discussed how some traders thought TITN might be a good long term buy and perhaps shorter term traders might be better off with a stock like CNH Global.But for you longer term players, the question you need to ask yourself is not just how long you are willing to wait, but how much pain will you endure before you bail on your investment.Latest Posts on the Zacks Analyst Blog:Acorda Initiates Study on MS TreatmentAcorda Therapeutics, Inc. (ACOR) and Mayo Clinic announced the enrollment of the first patient in a phase I safety study of rHIgM22. rHIgM22, a remyelinating monoclonal antibody, is being evaluated for the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). The study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of rHIgM22.Acorda already has a presence in the MS market in the form of Ampyra, which is approved for the improvement of walking in patients suffering from MS. Acorda is currently working on expanding Amypra’s label into additional indications.The company recently presented encouraging data on Ampyra from two phase II proof-of-concept studies for cerebral palsy and post-stroke deficit. The company plans to discuss further development of Ampyra for the post-stroke deficit indication with the FDA.Acorda has an agreement with Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) for marketing Ampyra outside the US under the trade name Fampyra. Fampyra is approved in the EU, Canada, Australia, Israel and New Zealand.According to Acorda, about 400,000 people in the US suffer from MS. In addition, every year approximately 10,000 patients are diagnosed. Moreover, in the EU, approximately 600,000 people have MS.We remind investors that companies like Biogen and Novartis AG (NVS) have a strong presence in the MS market. Biogen has MS products like Tysabri and Avonex in its portfolio. The company recently gained approval for Tecfidera, its oral MS treatment. Meanwhile, Novartis’ Gilenya is used for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS.Story continuesGet the full analysis of all these stocks by going to http://at.zacks.com/?id=2649.About the Bull and Bear of the DayEvery day, the analysts at Zacks Equity Research select two stocks that are likely to outperform (Bull) or underperform (Bear) the markets over the next 3-6 months.About the Analyst BlogUpdated throughout every trading day, the Analyst Blog provides analysis from Zacks Equity Research about the latest news and events impacting stocks and the financial markets.About Zacks Equity ResearchZacks Equity Research provides the best of quantitative and qualitative analysis to help investors know what stocks to buy and which to sell for the long-term.Continuous analyst coverage is provided for a universe of 1,150 publicly traded stocks. Our analysts are organized by industry which gives them keen insights to developments that affect company profits and stock performance. Recommendations and target prices are six-month time horizons.Zacks "Profit from the Pros" e-mail newsletter provides highlights of the latest analysis from Zacks Equity Research. Subscribe to this free newsletter today by visiting http://at.zacks.com/?id=7158.About Zacks Zacks.com is a property of Zacks Investment Research, Inc., which was formed in 1978 by Leonard Zacks. As a PhD from MIT Len knew he could find patterns in stock market data that would lead to superior investment results. Amongst his many accomplishments was the formation of his proprietary stock picking system; the Zacks Rank, which continues to outperform the market by nearly a 3 to 1 margin. The best way to unlock the profitable stock recommendations and market insights of Zacks InvestmentResearch is through our free daily email newsletter; Profit from the Pros. In short, it's your steady flow of Profitable ideas GUARANTEED to be worth your time! Register for your free subscription to Profit from the Pros at http://at.zacks.com/?id=4582.Visit http://www.zacks.com/performance for information about the performance numbers displayed in this press release.Follow us on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/zacksresearchJoin us on Facebook:  http://www.facebook.com/home.php#/pages/Zacks-Investment-Research/57553657748?ref=tsDisclaimer: Past performance does not guarantee future results. Investors should always research companies and securities before making any investments. Nothing herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any security.Media Contact Zacks Investment Research800-767-3771 ext. 9339support@zacks.comhttp://www.zacks.comRead the analyst report on OSTK Read the analyst report on TITN Read the analyst report on ACOR Read the analyst report on BIIB Read the analyst report on NVS Zacks Investment Research More From Zacks.com Read the analyst report on OSTK,TITN,ACOR,BIIB,NVS