TORONTO, ONTARIO--(Marketwired - Apr 1, 2014) -
Thundermin Resources Inc. ("Thundermin") (TSX VENTURE:THR) announces that on April 1, 2014 it granted a total of 1,950,000 incentive stock options to its directors, officers and a consultant, which options replace a like number of incentive stock options that expired on March 8, 2014. Each stock option allows the holder thereof to acquire one common share of Thundermin at a price of $0.05 per share for terms ranging from one to five years from the date of the grant, as the case may be, all in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated Stock Option Plan of Thundermin (the "Plan"). The exercise of any such options is conditional upon the ratification of the Plan by the shareholders of Thundermin at the 2014 Annual and Special Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 22, 2014.About ThunderminThundermin is a Canadian-based mineral exploration company focused on the exploration for and the discovery of economically viable base metal and gold deposits in Canada. Thundermin has an interest in, or the right to earn an interest in, 12 base metal and gold properties in Canada. The most significant of these is the Little Deer copper property in the Springdale area of Newfoundland that hosts the Little Deer and Whalesback copper deposits. Thundermin and 50% joint venture partner Rambler Metals and Mining Canada Limited have outlined Indicated Resources of 1,911,000 tonnes grading 2.37% copper and Inferred Resources of 3,748,000 tonnes grading 2.13% copper at Little Deer and Indicated Resources of 797,000 tonnes grading 1.67% copper and Inferred Resources of 443,000 tonnes grading 1.57% copper at Whalesback. A 3,800 m diamond drilling program is currently on-going on the Little Deer copper deposit.Thundermin owns a 100% interest in the Lebel Township gold property, which is located on the Kirkland Lake Main Break in the prolific Kirkland Lake gold camp. Thundermin has the right to earn a 100% interest in eight exploration licenses covering a large portion of the Stirling volcanogenic massive zinc-lead-copper-silver-gold sulphide belt located on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia. An initial diamond drill program undertaken on the property in 2012 was successful in intersecting copper mineralization in porphyritic volcanic rocks similar to those known to host massive sulphide deposits elsewhere. Thundermin has royalty interests in seven base metal and gold properties located in British Columbia and Quebec, the most significant being a 2.5% net smelter return royalty in the Pelletier Lake gold deposit which is under option to QMX Gold Corporation. The Pelletier Lake property is currently in arbitration with Thundermin aiming to regain full ownership of the property. Thundermin also has various shareholdings in twelve other junior resource companies exploring for base metal, gold, chrome, and diamond deposits in Canada.Forward-Looking StatementsThis news release may contain "Forward-Looking Statements" that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of Thundermin's plans, objectives, strategies, intentions and expectations. The words "potential," "anticipate," "forecast," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "may," "project," "plan," and similar expressions are intended to be among the statements that identify "Forward-Looking Statements". Although Thundermin believes that its expectations reflected in these "Forward-Looking Statements" are reasonable, such statements may involve unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors disclosed in our regulatory filings that can be viewed on the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com. For us, uncertainties arise from the behavior of financial and metals markets and from numerous other matters of national, regional, and global scale, including those of an environmental, climatic, natural, political, economic, business, competitive, or regulatory nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our "Forward-Looking Statements". Although Thundermin believes the facts and information contained in this news release to be as correct and current as possible, Thundermin does not warrant or make any representation as to the accuracy, validity or completeness of any facts or information contained herein and these statements should not be relied upon as representing its views subsequent to the date of this news release.NEITHER TSX VENTURE EXCHANGE NOR ITS REGULATION SERVICES PROVIDER (AS THAT TERM IS DEFINED IN THE POLICIES OF THE TSX VENTURE EXCHANGE) ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ADEQUACY OR ACCURACY OF THIS RELEASEFor further information on Thundermin Resources Inc. please visit Thundermin's website at www.thundermin.com or the SEDAR website at www.sedar.com.